#summary What Else You Need
#labels Deprecated
#sidebar wSb

You don't need any other programs to use Tunnelblick. It comes with the OpenVPN program and all required drivers built into the Tunnelblick application itself.

However, you do need three other things:

 * Administrator access to your computer so the program and configurations can be made secure and OpenVPN can make network configuration changes needed to establish a VPN. 

 * Access to a VPN server, because your computer is only one end of the VPN tunnel -- the VPN server is the other end. For more details, see [wGettingVPNService Getting VPN Service]. There are several ways to get access to a VPN server:
   * Your employer may provide a VPN server so you can work from home or the road securely.
   * You can set up your own VPN server at home, and use it to access your home network and the Internet securely when at a remote location. The VPN server could be a program running on a Mac, Windows, or Linux computer, or on your home router.
   * You can get (free or for a fee) access to a VPN by using a VPN service provider.

 * Configuration information (you get this from who/whatever provides you with access to a VPN server):
   * A [wPkgs Tunnelblick VPN Configuration], or
   * An [wConfigO OpenVPN configuration] (.ovpn or .conf file), plus any keys, certificates, usernames, and passwords required for authentication.

------------------

===PLEASE USE THE [http://groups.google.com/group/tunnelblick-discuss TUNNELBLICK DISCUSSION GROUP] FOR COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS*===