README.md, before:

Tunnelblick
===========

The official Tunnelblick website is at https://tunnelblick.net

The official Tunnelblick source code respository is at https://github.com/Tunnelblick/Tunnelblick

What is Tunnelblick?
----------------

Tunnelblick is a free, open source graphic user interface for [OpenVPN](https://openvpn.net/index.php/open-source.html) on macOS. It provides easy control of OpenVPN client and/or server connections.

License
-------

Tunnelblick is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 2.

Bugs / Issues
-------------
We welcome reports of issues and bugs. We prefer you post issues and bug reports on the [Tunnelblick Discussion Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tunnelblick-discuss), but also accept [Tunnelblick GitHub Issues](https://github.com/Tunnelblick/Tunnelblick/issues).

Pull Requests
-------------

We welcome PRs for everything **except** translations and localization. We **do not** accept PRs for localization or translations. To help with translations and localization, please see
[Localizing and Translating Tunnelblick](https://tunnelblick.net/cLocalizeTranslate.html).


Code of Conduct
---------------

See our [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/Tunnelblick/Tunnelblick/blob/master/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

Contributing
------------

See [Contributing](https://github.com/Tunnelblick/Tunnelblick/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

Add link to GitHub snapshot of the website to README

README.md, after:

Tunnelblick
===========

The official Tunnelblick website is at https://tunnelblick.net

A snapshot copy of the website is at https://tunnelblick.github.io. It is recreated at each release and when significant changes are made to the website.

The official Tunnelblick source code respository is at https://github.com/Tunnelblick/Tunnelblick

What is Tunnelblick?
----------------

Tunnelblick is a free, open source graphic user interface for [OpenVPN](https://openvpn.net/index.php/open-source.html) on macOS. It provides easy control of OpenVPN client and/or server connections.

License
-------

Tunnelblick is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 2.

Bugs / Issues
-------------
We welcome reports of issues and bugs. We prefer you post issues and bug reports on the [Tunnelblick Discussion Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tunnelblick-discuss), but also accept [Tunnelblick GitHub Issues](https://github.com/Tunnelblick/Tunnelblick/issues).

Pull Requests
-------------

We welcome PRs for everything **except** translations and localization. We **do not** accept PRs for localization or translations. To help with translations and localization, please see
[Localizing and Translating Tunnelblick](https://tunnelblick.net/cLocalizeTranslate.html).


Code of Conduct
---------------

See our [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/Tunnelblick/Tunnelblick/blob/master/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

Contributing
------------

See [Contributing](https://github.com/Tunnelblick/Tunnelblick/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md).
