#summary Before You Post
#sidebar cSb

==Before You Post to the Tunnelblick Discussion Group==

*If you <font color="red">are a member</font> of this group, your first post must be approved* by a moderator before it will appear.

*If you <font color="red">are not a member</font> of this group, each of your posts must be approved* by a moderator before it will appear.

Please be patient -- we're all volunteers! (For more information about the moderation process, see [https://groups.google.com/d/topic/tunnelblick-discuss/J6x4mQhSxsQ/discussion this post].)
<hr>
==What to Post==

*If you are having a problem with Tunnelblick, please:*
 # Open the "VPN Details…" window
 # Click on the "Log" tab
 # Click on the "Connect" button
 # (Wait until the problem occurs)
 # Click on the "Disconnect" button if the VPN is connected
 # Click on the "Copy Diagnostic Info to the Clipboard" button
 # Past into an email or web form
 # Remove any sensitive information before sending the email or posting the form

The "Copy Diagnostic Info to the Clipboard" button is available in Tunnelblick 3.3beta38 and higher. If you are using a very old version of Tunnelblick, please include the following with your question:
 * the contents of your configuration file;
 * the entire contents of the Tunnelblick log; and
 * the end of the Console log.
 Be sure to edit out any sensitive information such as server IP addresses and private keys.

 To put the contents of your configuration file on the Clipboard so you can paste it into an email, open it in !TextEdit as follows:
 # Click the Tunnelblick icon
 # Click "VPN Details…"
 # Select the "Configurations" panel if it is not already selected
 # Select the configuration whose file you want to look at in the list on the left
 # Click the little "gear" icon at the bottom of the list on the left
 # Select "Edit OpenVPN Configuration File…" (or possibly "Examine OpenVPN Configuration File…").
 # In !TextEdit you can Edit : Select All and then Edit : Copy to get the contents of the configuration file put into the clipboard.

 See the [cOpenVPNLog Tunnelblick Log] and the [cConsoleLog Console Log] for information copying the logs.

------------------

===PLEASE USE THE [https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tunnelblick-discuss TUNNELBLICK DISCUSSION GROUP] FOR COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS*===