#summary Tunnelblick and OS X 10.8
#sidebar cSb

<h3>Mountain Lion Problems</h3>

Some users are experiencing problems with Tunnelblick on OS X 10.8 ("Mountain Lion"):
 * They can't install Tunnelblick by double-clicking on the Tunnelblick icon in the downloaded disk image, or
 * They can't connect to their VPN server, or
 * They can connect to their VPN server, but they can't use the Internet. Usually this is caused by a DNS problem.

The latest beta fixes many of these problems.

_Note: by "connect" we mean get a successful VPN connection, with the Tunnelblick icon showing an open tunnel._

This document describes some troubleshooting steps you can take and provides a workaround you can use until these problems are fixed.

*<font color="red">Before doing anything else, please make sure you are using the latest beta version of Tunnelblick from the [DownloadsEntry Downloads] page.</font>*

<hr>

*If you are not able to install Tunnelblick*, try dragging the Tunnelblick icon to your Applications folder instead of double-clicking it. If that doesn't work, try installing the Unsigned version of the latest Tunnelblick beta. If that doesn't work, try dragging it to the Applications folder.


<hr>

*If you are not able to connect*, first please try OpenVPN version 2.2.1 instead of the default, version 2.3-alpha1. Select it on the "Preferences" panel of the "VPN Details…" window.

If you still can't connect, please look for help in the the links on the left under Troubleshooting, or in the [https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tunnelblick-discuss Tunnelblick Discussion Group]. Be sure to [https://groups.google.com/d/topic/tunnelblick-discuss/WRhrqIf9brg/discussion include your configuration file and complete Tunnelblick log].


<hr>

*If you can successfully connect, but you have no Internet access*, please determine if the problem is a DNS problem. The latest beta versions will try to diagnose that if you let them check the computer's apparent public IP address before and after connecting. They will pop up a window telling you that there is a problem with DNS or that the Internet appears to be unreachable after connecting.

*Please report problems* on the [https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tunnelblick-discuss Tunnelblick Discussion Group]. Be sure to [https://groups.google.com/d/topic/tunnelblick-discuss/WRhrqIf9brg/discussion include your configuration file and complete Tunnelblick log].

 You can also test for a DNS problem manually. To do that, connect the VPN configuration, then open a browser window and type an IP address of www.ibm.com in the address bar as follows, then press "return":

  http://129.42.58.216

 also, please try an IP address for www.google.com:

  http://173.194.75.147

 (Do not use "ping", "dig", or other commands to test for connectivity -- not all web servers respond to "ping" packets, and some commands use a different mechanism that most of OS X for DNS resolution.)

*If those pages don't load by IP address, then there is not a DNS problem -- it is something else* and you should look for help in the the links to the left under Troubleshooting, or in the [https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tunnelblick-discuss Tunnelblick Discussion Group].

*If those pages do load via IP address, it is a DNS problem.*

<hr>
<h3>Fixing DNS Problems</h3>
*The latest beta may solve the DNS problem if you set "DNS/WINS" to "Set nameserver"*. DNS/WINS may be set (for each configuration separately) on the "Settings" tab of the "Configurations" panel of the "VPN Details…" window.

If "Set nameserver" does not work, please try each of the other "Set DNS/WINS" options that are available.

If none of them work for you, try setting your DNS servers manually to Google's public DNS servers, 8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4, or OpenDNS's public DNS servers: 208.67.222.222 and 208.67.220.220. You can use these servers at all times. Google public DNS is free, and OpenDNS has a free version. (This will work for most people, but not for  people who need access to a corporate network or DNS service from the VPN's LAN. See below for a solution that may work for that.)

To set your DNS servers manually:
 # Launch System Preferences,
 # Click "Network"
 # Type server addresses, separated by commas, into the box to the right of "DNS Server".

For example, to specify Google's DNS servers, type "8.8.8.8,8.8.4.4" without the quotation marks.
To specify OpenDNS's DNS servers, type "208.67.222.222,208.67.220.220" without the quotation marks.

*Access to Corporate or Other DNS Servers*

If you need access to the DNS servers on your corporate or other LAN there is a workaround for that, although it is cumbersome: connect to the VPN, then set the DNS servers manually to the addresses of the DNS servers you wish. When you are finished, first disconnect the VPN, and then remove the manual settings.

------------------

===PLEASE USE THE [https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tunnelblick-discuss TUNNELBLICK DISCUSSION GROUP] FOR COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS*===