#summary System Requirements
#sidebar cSb

Note: To use Tunnelblick you need access to a VPN server -- your computer is one end of the tunnel and the VPN server is the other end. See [cGettingVPNService Getting VPN Service] for details.

Tunnelblick comes as a ready-to-use application with all necessary binaries and drivers (including OpenVPN and tun/tap). No additional installation is necessary -- just add your configuration and encryption information.

Tunnelblick 3.3 runs on OS X 10.4 through 10.9 ("Tiger", "Leopard", "Snow Leopard", "Lion", "Mountain Lion", and "Mavericks").

Tunnelblick 3.2 runs on OS X 10.4 through 10.7 ("Tiger", "Leopard", "Snow Leopard", and  "Lion"). It _may or may not_ work for you on OS X 10.8 or 10.9 ("Mountain Lion" or "Mavericks").

Tunnelblick 3.1 and 3.0 run on OS X 10.4 through 10.6 ("Tiger", "Leopard", and "Snow Leopard").

Tunnelblick 2.0.1 runs on OS X 10.3 ("Panther"). _PowerPC only_

*About PPC/Intel compatibility*: Tunnelblick 3.0 and up is a Universal application, so it runs on Intel or PPC processors.

*About 64-bit compatibility*: Tunnelblick is a 32-bit application, so it runs as an application in 32-bit mode on all versions of OS X.

Tunnelblick includes Intel 32/64-bit versions of tun.kext and tap.kext. 32-bit kernels use the 32-bit tun/tap, and 64-bit kernels use the 64-bit tun/tap. Tunnelblick includes 32-bit versions of OpenVPN for PPC, and 32/64-bit versions for Intel.


------------------

===PLEASE USE THE [https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tunnelblick-discuss TUNNELBLICK DISCUSSION GROUP] FOR COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS*===