#summary Changes from Version 3.1 to Version 3.2
#sidebar cSb

<hr>

For a list of all changes, see the [RlsNotes Release Notes].

<hr>

==Summary of Major Changes from Version 3.1 to Version 3.2==

 * Includes OpenVPN 2.2,  OpenSSL 1.0.0d and PKCS#11 1.08.

 * Adds [cAppleScriptSupport AppleScript support].

 * The VPN login window now allows copy/cut/paste of usernames and paste of passwords and passphrases.

 * The 'Clear log' button is no longer needed and has been removed from the Details… window.

 * Includes complete French localization by Jeremy W. Sherman.

 * Includes complete Portuguese localization by Denis Volpato Martins.

 * The following scripts may be included in a Tunnelblick VPN Configuration (.tblk package):
   * The 'pre-connect.sh' script is executed (as root) before Tunnelblick would unload and/or load the tun or tap kexts (whether or not any unload or load takes place).
   * The 'post-tun-tap-load.sh' script is executed (as root) after Tunnelblick unloads and/or loads the tun or tap kexts (whether or not any unload or load takes place). Thus, the script is executed immediately before starting OpenVPN.
   * The 'connected.sh' script is executed (as root) when a configuration connects. This script is executed only if Tunnelblick is running at the time of the event, which may not be the case for 'when computer starts' configurations.
   * The 'reconnecting.sh' script is executed (as root) when OpenVPN loses the VPN connection and is trying to reconnect. This script is executed only if Tunnelblick is running at the time of the event, which may not be the case for 'when computer starts' configurations.
   * The 'post-disconnect.sh' script is executed (as root) after OpenVPN has closed the connection. This script is executed only if Tunnelblick is running at the time of the event, which may not be the case for 'when computer starts' configurations.

 * Includes OpenSSL 1.0.0d.

 * Tunnelblick VPN Configurations ('.tblk' packages) may now be uninstalled. If the 'TBUninstall' key is included in a Tunnelblick VPN Configuration's Info.plist (with any value), the installed configuration that has corresponding attributes (install location, bundle ID) will be uninstalled. If the key is the string 'ignoreError' (without the quote marks), any failures in the uninstall process will not be reported to the user.

 * Higher 'verb' levels may be used without performance degradation.

 * If Tunnelblick.app/Contents/Resources/Deploy is empty, deletes backups of the Deploy folder. (This lets a user easily install a fresh un-Deployed Tunnelblick over a Deployed version.)

 * Moves !leaseWatch.plist to /Library/Application Support/Tunnelblick so Tunnelblick.app is not modified (thus preserving the validity of the application's digital signature, if any).

 * A new !leaseWatch script is used when 'Monitor connection' is checked. It is more tolerant of unimportant changes. The old script and behavior may be used by specifying 'Set nameserver (3.1)'. The changes are:
  * Monitoring now ignores the order that scutil outputs keys in and only monitors !DomainName, !ServerAddresses, and !SearchDomains for DNS and !NetBIOSName, Workgroup, and WINSAddresses for WINS/SMB.
  * New per-configration preference 'XXX-leasewatchOptions' (where XXX is the name of the configuration) consists of '-i' followed by the letters d, a, s, n, g, w to ignore the !DomainName, !ServerAddresses, !SearchDomains, !etBIOSName, Workgroup, and WINSAddresses, respectively. If not present, all items are monitored. Example: to ignore WINS changes completely, use '-ingw'.

 * Adds translations of additional OpenVPN connection status.

 * Includes changes to avoid two false-positive Xcode 3.2.5 analyzer warnings in !NetSocket.m.

 * Removes the -useDownRootPlugin preference if no 'user' or 'group' options in the configuration file

 * Changes to client.up.tunnelblick.sh for Lion and less sensitive network change detection.

 * Unloading of the foo.tap and foo.tun kexts is now attempted only if they are already loaded (previously, it was always attempted and errors were ignored).

 * Fixes problems with fast user switching (previously, user switches were ignored, which caused problems if Tunnelblick was used by more than one user and could cause the Tunnelblick icon to indicate no VPN connection when one existed):
   * When a user is switched out, all configurations that are not set to 'connect when computer starts' will be disconnected unless the per-connection '-doNotDisconnectOnFastUserSwitch' preference is set true.
   * When a user is switched in, Tunnelblick will attempt to connect any configurations that were connected at the time the user was switched out but are no longer connected unless the per-connection '-doNotReconnectOnFastUserSwitch' preference is set true.

 * Fixes potential race condition when computer wakes up.

 * Fixes a bug that could cause Tunnelblick to fail to start because the it was unable to properly secure itself.

 * Fixes bug that can cause unnecessary warnings about unknown OpenVPN processes.

 * Fixes bug that caused up/down scripts in .tblks to not be executed.

 * Fixes bug that can cause crashes after connecting to a VPN.

 * Fixes problem installing Tunnelblick via double-click when the user's home folder is not on the same volume as /Applications/Tunnelblick.app

 * Fixes bug that sometimes failed to alert the user when a VPN username/password or passphrase fails, making it work better with some OpenVPN servers. (There is still a bug in OpenVPN which causes Tunnelblick to fail to report some failures; this bug is fixed in OpenVPN 2.2rc, which Tunnelblick betas will start using 'soon'.)

 * Fixes bug that sometimes caused unnecessary 'The change will take effect the next time you connect' messages.

 * Fixes bug that sometimes caused Tunnelblick to be unable to establish communications with OpenVPN.

 * Fixes bug that sometimes -- on OS X 10.4 ('Tiger') only -- caused Tunnelblick to hang while quitting or connecting to a VPN server.

 * Fixes a problem with installing nested Tunnelblick VPN Configurations (.tblk) -- they were installed in a subfolder of the configurations folder instead of at the top level.

 * Fixes bug that refused to install Tunnelblick VPN Configurations if they contained subfolders.

 * Fixes a bug that caused a Console log entry that a flag file does not exist after installing certain Tunnelblick VPN Configurations (.tblk).

 * Fixes a bug that could cause an inability to start Tunnelblick because the installer was unable to properly secure it.

 * Fixes problems causing tun/tap kexts to be loaded even though preferences specify that the kext(s) are not to be loaded.

 * Fixes problems with Tunnelblick icon not appearing in security dialogs.

 * Fixes a bug that failed to properly deal with NetBIOSName when monitoring the connection.

 * Fixes a bug that sometimes caused kexts to not be unloaded.

 * Fixes bugs when using  TAP, DHCP, and 'Set nameserver (alternate 1)'.

 * Fixes bugs causing the connection time display to freeze.

 * Fixes a few small memory leaks: one VPNConnection objects per sleep/wake cycle, two NSStrings per connect/disconnect, one NSMutableArray and two NSImages each time the 'Use Original Icon' menu command is clicked, several objects each time executeAuthorized is run, and Issue 171.

 * Warns the user if a configuration is set to to connect when the computer starts and it is a Tunnelblick VPN Configuration (.tblk package) which includes a 'connected.sh', 'reconnecting.sh', or 'post-disconnect.sh' script. Those scripts are not executed unless Tunnelblick itself is running when the event occurs, which may not be the case for 'when computer starts' configurations.

 * Tunnelblick (but not third-party) preparation for OS X 10.7 (Lion), including isolating deprecated methods and changes for GCC 4.2. Warnings about 'object file compiled with -mlong-branch' when building Tunnelblick are now _gone_ -- building Tunnelblick generates warnings only for third-party software. (Still generates code for OS X 10.4, 10.5, and 10.6)

 * Removed references to 'intValueOfBuildForBundle' because it is no longer used

 * Updated copyright notices and added Free Software Foundation license URL

------------------

===PLEASE USE THE [http://groups.google.com/group/tunnelblick-discuss TUNNELBLICK DISCUSSION GROUP] FOR COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS*===