#summary Documentation for Tunnelblick 3.2
#sidebar cSb

<hr>
<font size="3">*[http://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick/wiki/DownloadsEntry?tm=2 Download Tunnelblick]*</font>
<hr>

This is a summary of major changes from Tunnelblick version 3.1 to version 3.2.
 * For more details of the changes from Tunnelblick version 3.1 to version 3.2, see [cThreeOneToThreeTwoChanges Details About 3.2].
 * For changes from other versions to Tunnelblick 3.2, see the [RlsNotes Tunnelblick Release Notes].

==Better Security==
 * Includes the latest stable versions of OpenVPN (2.2.1), PKCS#11 (1.09), LZO (2.05), the OpenSSL library (1.0.e), and Tuntap (20111101).
 * Includes additional protection against attacks.

==Better Usability==
 * The Tunnelblick menu has been streamlined.
 * The new "VPN Details…" window lets you easily:
  * Manage configurations -- you can easily add, delete, duplicate, and rename configurations, remove Keychain credentials, etc.
  * Change configuration settings
  * Change Tunnelblick's behavior and appearance.
 * Tunnelblick now allows copy/cut/paste of VPN usernames and paste of passwords and passphrases.
 * Tunnelblick is now less sensitive to minor network changes.
 * Tunnelblick includes complete Catalan, Czech, German, Spanish, French, Hungarian, Korean, Norwegian, Dutch, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Swedish, and Chinese (simplified) localization.
 * The Tunnelblick application is now digitally signed, so that the user will not be asked to authorize Tunnelblick to use the Keychain each time the program is updated (on OS X 10.5 "Leopard" and above).

==More Capabilities==
 * Runs on OS X 10.4, 10.5, 10.6, and 10.7 ("Tiger", "Leopard", "Snow Leopard", and "Lion").
 * [cAppleScriptSupport AppleScript support].
 * Scripts may be automatically run before and tun/tap kexts are loaded, after a connection has been made, when a reconnection attempt is being made, and after a connection has been disconnected. For more details, see [cUsingScripts Using Scripts].
 * Includes OpenVPN 2.1.4 and OpenVPN 2.2.1; the user can choose which version to use.
 * The status message (the first line of the menu exposed when you click the Tunnelblick icon) allows you to disconnect all open connections with one click.
 * Higher 'verb' levels may be used without performance degradation.

==Better Reliability==
 * Fixes several bugs, including:
   * Fixes problems with Fast User Switching.
   * Fixes problems using TAP, DHCP, and 'Set nameserver (alternate 1)'.
   * Fixes failure to to alert the user when a VPN username/password or passphrase fails. Offers to try using different credentials.
   * And many more… (See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.

<hr>
<font size="3">*[http://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick/wiki/DownloadsEntry?tm=2 Download Tunnelblick]*</font>
<hr>

------------------

===PLEASE USE THE [https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tunnelblick-discuss TUNNELBLICK DISCUSSION GROUP] FOR COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS*===