#summary Documentation for Tunnelblick 3.3
#sidebar cSb

==Summary of Changes from Version 3.2 to Version 3.3==

 * For more details of the changes from Tunnelblick version 3.2 to version 3.3, see [cThreeTwoToThreeThreeChanges Changes from Version 3.2 to Version 3.3].
 * For changes from other versions to Tunnelblick 3.3, see the [RlsNotes#Version_3.3 Tunnelblick 3.3 Release Notes].

==Better Security==
 * Includes the latest stable versions of OpenVPN, LZO, the OpenSSL library, and Tuntap.
 * Does additional checks to ensure the program's integrity.
 * Includes additional protection against attacks.

==Better Usability==
 * Tunnelblick configurations in folders can be hidden or exposed by clicking on disclosure triangles.
 * Enhances installation of Tunnelblick VPN Configurations with improved error detection and correction.
 * Can "speak" that a configuration has been connected or disconnected.
 * Complete Finnish and Slovak localization has been added to the 17 languages available in 3.2.
 
==More Capabilities==
 * Runs on OS X 10.4 through 10.8 ("Tiger", "Leopard", "Snow Leopard", "Lion", and "Mountain Lion").
 * Can check that the apparent public IP address of the computer changed after connecting to a VPN.
 * Can force all traffic through the VPN.
 * Can run easy-rsa in Terminal with one click.
 * Accepts multiple 'dhcp-option DOMAIN-SEARCH `<domain>`' options.

==Better Reliability==
   * Fixes a problem that sometimes caused Tunnelblick installations to fail.
   * Fixes problems that caused incorrect sorting and indenting of configurations in submenus.
   * Fixes problems with the log display if the display gets very large.
   * And many more… (See [cThreeTwoToThreeThreeChanges Changes from Version 3.2 to Version 3.3] for details.)
<hr>
<font size="3">*[http://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick/wiki/DownloadsEntry?tm=2 Download Tunnelblick]*</font>
<hr>

------------------

===PLEASE USE THE [https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tunnelblick-discuss TUNNELBLICK DISCUSSION GROUP] FOR COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS*===