#summary Documentation for Tunnelblick 3.1beta06
#sidebar wSb

<hr>
<font size="3">*[http://tunnelblick.googlecode.com/files/Tunnelblick_3.1beta06.dmg Download Tunnelblick 3.1beta06]*</font>
<hr>

*[RlsNotes Full Release Notes]*

==What's New in Tunnelblick 3.1beta06 (from 3.1beta04)==
   * Takes into account both the 'dev-type' and 'dev' options in the configuration file when trying to determine if it is a 'tun' or 'tap' connection. Tunnelblick tries to determine that so it can load only the tap or tun kext (device driver) that is required. Note: there appears to be a bug in OpenVPN that makes the dev-type option fail; this does not help that problem.

 * Runs new scripts, pre-connect.sh and post-disconnect.sh, as root before connecting and/or after disconnecting if the scripts exist. (They must be in a .tblk package). This allows manipulation of kexts and/or the network configuration before the tun/tap kexts are loaded and OpenVPN is run and after OpenVPN exits and the kexts are unloaded.

  * Changed "Online Documentation.webloc" that is put in the .dmg so it will go to the new main documentation page.

  * Fixes bug that caused .conf configuration files to be ignored.

  * Fixes bug that caused failure to connect if "Monitor connection" was checked and the standard up script was used.

  * Fixes bug that caused restarts to fail if a different configuration was disconnected at exactly the right (or wrong!) time.

  * Fixes bug that didn't clean up when installation of a .tblk package failed.

------------------

===PLEASE USE THE [http://groups.google.com/group/tunnelblick-discuss TUNNELBLICK DISCUSSION GROUP] FOR COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS*===