#summary Older Downloads
#sidebar cSb

[http://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick/wiki/cSysReq System Requirements]

==Deprecated Downloads==

Deprecated means "superseded and should be avoided".

Please don't use a deprecated version of Tunnelblick unless you are having problems with the latest stable or beta version.

<font color="red">*If you are having problems with the latest stable or beta version of Tunnelblick, please be sure to report the problems on the [https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/tunnelblick-discuss Tunnelblick Discussion Group].*</font>

<table border="1" width="100%"><tbody><tr><td>
 ==Deprecated Versions of Tunnelblick==
<hr />
 <font size="3"><strong>[https://sourceforge.net/projects/tunnelblick/files/All%20files/Tunnelblick_3.4beta38_r3002.dmg/download Tunnelblick 3.4beta38]</strong></font> `[`sourceforge.net`]` (build 4002) released 2014-10-01 [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes]<br />
 _*SHA1*_: 476676758b463dc3f2ad4f9d9ff8449900266e24 _*MD5*_: 1e95df3991ca2fe689ec704f94ac9473 _*(See [DownloadsEntry#Verifying_Downloads Verifying Downloads])*_
 
 For use on OS X 10.4 - 10.10 ("Tiger", "Leopard", "Snow Leopard", "Lion", "Mountain Lion", "Mavericks", and "Yosemite"), Intel or PowerPC, 32- or 64-bit.

  NOTE: This version will refuse to install or launch on a computer that has ever had a "[cCusDeployed Deployed]" version installed unless that version has been completely [cInstall#Uninstalling_Tunnelblick uninstalled]. Uninstalling will delete all Tunnelblick VPNs from your system. To update a "[cCusDeployed Deployed]" version, you must obtain a new version from the person or organization that provided you with your original "[cCusDeployed Deployed]" version. The Tunnelblick project does <em>not</em> provide "[cCusDeployed Deployed]" versions. The latest version of Tunnelblick that may be used as a "Deployed" version without being rebranded is 3.3beta21b (Unsigned). It may be found on the [SecurityRiskDownloads Security Risk Downloads] page.

<hr />
 <font color="red">*All other deprecated versions of Tunnelblick contain serious security vulnerabilities*</font>.<br />They are available on the [SecurityRiskDownloads Security Risk Downloads] page.

</td></tr></tbody></table>


<table border="1" width="100%"><tbody><tr><td>
 ==Deprecated Versions of Tunnelblick Uninstaller==
<hr />
 <font size="3"><strong>[http://sourceforge.net/projects/tunnelblick/files/All%20files/Uninstaller/Tunnelblick_Uninstaller_1.3.dmg/download Tunnelblick Uninstaller 1.3]</strong></font> `[`sourceforge.net`]` released 2014-07-10<br />
 _*SHA1*_: 897f78e3f585da6da6abc1a0982efe0bc9dc65cc _*MD5*_: bb13478caeeef69b5791a99dc54db1ff _(See [DownloadsEntry#Verifying_Downloads Verifying Downloads])_
  * Removes the new entry in ~/Library/LaunchAgents made by Tunnelblick 3.4beta32 and higher

 For use on OS X 10.4 - 10.10 ("Tiger", "Leopard", "Snow Leopard", "Lion", "Mountain Lion", "Mavericks", and "Yosemite"), Intel or PowerPC, 32- or 64-bit.
<hr />
 <font size="3"><strong>[http://sourceforge.net/projects/tunnelblick/files/All%20files/Uninstaller/Tunnelblick_Uninstaller_1.2.dmg/download Tunnelblick Uninstaller 1.2]</strong></font> `[`sourceforge.net`]` released 2014-02-11<br />
 _*SHA1*_: 906c725e48aefedf984cd53eede3ce5ca79c1d0a _*MD5*_: 41964cd08ab1f2e4f4ba4e7b044bde74 _(See [DownloadsEntry#Verifying_Downloads Verifying Downloads])_
  * Fixes a problem causing "application is damaged" warnings on Mavericks
  * Fixes a problem with text being repeated in the opening window
  * Fixes a problem with the opening window not appearing until the Uninstaller icon in the Dock is clicked

 For use on OS X 10.4 - 10.10 ("Tiger", "Leopard", "Snow Leopard", "Lion", "Mountain Lion", "Mavericks", and "Yosemite"), Intel or PowerPC, 32- or 64-bit.
<hr />
 <font size="3"><strong>[http://sourceforge.net/projects/tunnelblick/files/All%20files/Uninstaller/Tunnelblick_Uninstaller_1.1.dmg/download Tunnelblick Uninstaller 1.1]</strong></font> `[`sourceforge.net`]` released 2014-01-08
  * Removes preferences cache if it is present
  * Warns user if Tunnelblick or OpenVPN is running
  * Ready for localization

 For use on OS X 10.4 - 10.8 ("Tiger", "Leopard", "Snow Leopard", "Lion", and "Mountain Lion"), Intel or PowerPC, 32- or 64-bit. <br /><font color="red">Not for use on OS X 10.9 ("Mavericks").</font>

<hr />

 <font size="3"><strong>[http://sourceforge.net/projects/tunnelblick/files/All%20files/Uninstaller/Tunnelblick_Uninstaller_1.0.dmg/download Tunnelblick Uninstaller 1.0]</strong></font> `[`sourceforge.net`]` released 2013-03-28

 For use on OS X 10.4 - 10.9 ("Tiger", "Leopard", "Snow Leopard", "Lion", "Mountain Lion", <font color="red">and "Mavericks"</font>), Intel or PowerPC, 32- or 64-bit.

</td></tr>
</tbody></table>







------------------

===PLEASE USE THE [http://groups.google.com/group/tunnelblick-discuss TUNNELBLICK DISCUSSION GROUP] FOR COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS===