#summary Entry page for Downloads
#sidebar cSb
<font size="5">*Downloads*</font>

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

<hr>

_Note: To use Tunnelblick you need access to a VPN server -- your computer is one end of the tunnel and the VPN server is the other end. For more information, see [cGettingVPNService Getting VPN Service]._

<hr>

<table border="1" width="100%"><tbody><tr><td>
 ==Tunnelblick Stable Release==
 <i>(A stable release is a version that has been tested as thoroughly as possible and is as reliable as we can make it. It usually does not have all the new features and bug fixes of a beta release, but may be more reliable.)</i>

 For use on OS X 10.4 - 10.8 ("Tiger", "Leopard", "Snow Leopard", "Lion", and "Mountain Lion"), Intel or PowerPC, 32- or 64-bit.<br /> *<font color="red">DO NOT use on OS X 10.9 or 10.10 ("Mavericks" or "Yosemite")</font>* -- use the latest [#Tunnelblick_Beta_Release Beta Release].

 <font size="3"><strong>[https://sourceforge.net/projects/tunnelblick/files/All%20files/Tunnelblick_3.3.4.dmg/download Tunnelblick 3.3.4]</strong></font> `[`sourceforge.net`]` (build 3518.3872) released 2014-06-12 [RlsNotes#Version_3.3 Release Notes] [DocumentationForTunnelblick_3_3  What's New in 3.3]<br />
 _*SHA1*_: 2c4472c58af7d32b831c9299688d0bad5906e1c2 _*MD5*_: 7fef70caa8b0ca9eed456ba6d253e630 _*(See [#Verifying_Downloads Verifying Downloads])*_
 
 NOTE: This version will refuse to install or launch on a computer that has ever had a "[cCusDeployed Deployed]" version installed unless that version has been completely [cInstall#Uninstalling_Tunnelblick uninstalled]. Uninstalling will delete all Tunnelblick VPNs from your system. To update a "[cCusDeployed Deployed]" version, you must obtain a new version from the person or organization that provided you with your original "[cCusDeployed Deployed]" version. The Tunnelblick project does <em>not</em> provide "[cCusDeployed Deployed]" versions. The latest version of Tunnelblick that may be used as a "Deployed" version without being rebranded is 3.3beta21b (Unsigned). It may be found on the [SecurityRiskDownloads Security Risk Downloads] page.

</td></tr></tbody></table>

<table border="1" width="100%"><tbody><tr><td>
 ==Tunnelblick Beta Release==
 <i>(A beta release is a version that has been tested internally and is ready for testing by the wider community. It usually has bug fixes and new features that are subject to change and need testing, and may have different bugs or limitations.)</i>

 For use on OS X 10.4 - 10.10 ("Tiger", "Leopard", "Snow Leopard", "Lion", "Mountain Lion", "Mavericks", and "Yosemite"), Intel or PowerPC, 32- or 64-bit.
 
 <font size="3"><strong>[https://sourceforge.net/projects/tunnelblick/files/All%20files/Tunnelblick_3.4beta32.dmg/download Tunnelblick 3.4beta32]</strong></font> `[`sourceforge.net`]` (build 3904) released 2014-07-17 [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes]<br />
 _*SHA1*_: 9e67cba861028570db98aa93b4cd05c7f9bf8bed _*MD5*_: 05e346e9f3ce65453cf3eb340b791b32 _*(See [#Verifying_Downloads Verifying Downloads])*_

  NOTE: This version will refuse to install or launch on a computer that has ever had a "[cCusDeployed Deployed]" version installed unless that version has been completely [cInstall#Uninstalling_Tunnelblick uninstalled]. Uninstalling will delete all Tunnelblick VPNs from your system. To update a "[cCusDeployed Deployed]" version, you must obtain a new version from the person or organization that provided you with your original "[cCusDeployed Deployed]" version. The Tunnelblick project does <em>not</em> provide "[cCusDeployed Deployed]" versions. The latest version of Tunnelblick that may be used as a "Deployed" version without being rebranded is 3.3beta21b (Unsigned). It may be found on the [SecurityRiskDownloads Security Risk Downloads] page.
 
</td></tr></tbody></table>

<table border="1" width="100%"><tbody><tr><td>
 ==Tunnelblick Uninstaller==
 (For instructions on using the Uninstaller, see [cInstall#Uninstalling_Tunnelblick Uninstalling Tunnelblick].)

 For use on OS X 10.4 - 10.10 ("Tiger", "Leopard", "Snow Leopard", "Lion", "Mountain Lion", "Mavericks", and "Yosemite"), Intel or PowerPC, 32- or 64-bit.

 <font size="3"><strong>[http://sourceforge.net/projects/tunnelblick/files/All%20files/Uninstaller/Tunnelblick_Uninstaller_1.2.dmg/download Tunnelblick Uninstaller 1.2]</strong></font> `[`sourceforge.net`]` released 2014-02-11<br />
 _*SHA1*_: 906c725e48aefedf984cd53eede3ce5ca79c1d0a _*MD5*_: 41964cd08ab1f2e4f4ba4e7b044bde74 _*(See [#Verifying_Downloads Verifying Downloads])*_

  * Fixes a problem causing "application is damaged" warnings on Mavericks
  * Fixes a problem with text being repeated in the opening window
  * Fixes a problem with the opening window not appearing until the Uninstaller icon in the Dock is clicked

</td></tr></tbody></table>

<table border="1" width="100%"><tbody><tr><td>
 ==Older Downloads==
    <strong>[DownloadsOlder Deprecated Downloads]</strong>
</td></tr></tbody></table>

<table border="1" width="100%"><tbody><tr><td>
 ==User-Contributed Scripts==
 These downloads have been contributed by users and usually help deal with special circumstances. They are not endorsed or checked by the Tunnelblick project or Google, and you use them at your own risk. To contribute a download, please email project owner [http://code.google.com/u/jkbullard/ Jon].

   * *!AppleScript to Connect/Disconnect to an Ordered List of VPNs*:  See [https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tunnelblick-discuss/h4TpuMZ1uPY/7wwmF2LQhOYJ this discussion].

 <font color="red">Note: the following scripts are executed as root.</font> [cUsingScripts Instructions for using scripts].

    * *Scripts to Unload Cisco Tun Kext*:  _*[http://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick/downloads/detail?name=user-contributed-001-pre-post.zip user-contributed-001-pre-post.zip]*_ Contributed by petiepooo. These scripts unload the Cisco !AnyConnect tun kext before a Tunnelblick connection is started, and reload the Cisco tun kext after a Tunnelblick connection is stopped. (The Cisco kext interferes with Tunnelblick's operation of tun connections.) Must be used in a Tunnelblick VPN Configuration (.tblk package) with Tunnelblick 3.1beta06 or higher.

    * *Scripts to Mount/Unmount a Volume*:  _*[http://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick/downloads/detail?name=user-contributed-002-mount-unmount-volume.zip user-contributed-002-mount-unmount-volume.zip]*_ Contributed by John Griffis. These scripts mount a volume after a configuration is connected and unmount it when the configuration is disconnected. Scripts must be edited before use (in any plain-text editor) to specify details of the volume to be connected. Must be used in a Tunnelblick VPN Configuration (.tblk package) with Tunnelblick 3.1beta06 or higher. For a note about connecting to a CIFS account, see <a href="https://groups.google.com/d/topic/tunnelblick-discuss/b2jboQHeqAs/discussion">https://groups.google.com/d/topic/tunnelblick-discuss/b2jboQHeqAs/discussion</a>.

    * *Scripts to Monitor Connection Time and Bandwidth Use*:  _*[http://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick/downloads/detail?name=user-contributed-003-monitor-uptime-and-bandwidth.zip user-contributed-003-monitor-uptime-and-bandwidth.zip]*_ Contributed by "vkapovit". These scripts  provide a mechanism for the user to be alerted when the VPN has been up for more than 20 minutes or when bandwidth has exceeded 100MB. See [https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tunnelblick-discuss/7lGWKR1-rC4/OGHhCfmrXfgJ this post] on the Tunnelblick Discussion Group for details. Requires Growl. Must be used in a Tunnelblick VPN Configuration (.tblk package) with Tunnelblick 3.1beta06 or higher. <strong><font color="red">Includes compiled binaries; use at your own risk.</font></strong>
</td></tr></tbody></table>

<table border="1" width="100%"><tbody><tr><td>
 ==Verifying Downloads==
 Verifying downloads is a good idea. Even though the .dmg format and the application's OS X digital signature provide some protection, you can also compare the SHA1 checksum and the MD5 hash of your downloaded file with the official published ones.

 To compute the checksum and hash of a file you've downloaded, type the following into /Applications/Utilities/Terminal:
  openssl sha1 _path-to-the-file_
 and
  openssl md5 _path-to-the-file_

 The SHA1 checksum and the MD5 hash of current Tunnelblick binaries are shown above, under the link to the binaries.
 
 For older binaries hosted on !SourceForge, go to
  [https://sourceforge.net/projects/tunnelblick/files/All%20files https://sourceforge.net/projects/tunnelblick/files/All files]
 and find the file in the list. Click on the little "information" icon (the white "i" in a dark circle) to the right of the file's name in the line. The SHA1 checksum and MD5 hash of the file will be displayed along with some other information.

 _Note: There are two files for each download, an X.dmg and an X-updater.dmg. The files are identical. Downloads from Tunnelblick's Google Code website use X.dmg and updates from within the Tunnelblick application use X-updater.dmg._
 
 For even older binaries hosted on Google Code, the SHA1 checksum is shown on the page with the download.
 
</td></tr></tbody></table>

------------------

===PLEASE USE THE [http://groups.google.com/group/tunnelblick-discuss TUNNELBLICK DISCUSSION GROUP] FOR COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS===