#summary Getting VPN Service
#sidebar xSb

If you try to connect to a VPN without setting up a configuration file, the following error message will appear:

 "You have tried to connect using a configuration file that is the same as the sample configuration file installed by Tunnelblick. The configuration file must be modified to connect to a VPN. You may also need other files, such as certificate or key files, to connect to the VPN.

 Consult your network administrator or your VPN service provider to obtain configuration and other files or the information you need to modify the sample file.

 OpenVPN documentation is available at
     http://openvpn.net/index.php/open-source/documentation.html

==Getting VPN Service==
To use Tunnelblick you need access to a VPN server -- your computer is one end of the tunnel and the VPN server is the other end. There are several ways to get access to a VPN server:

  * Your employer may provide a VPN server so you can work from home or the road securely.
  * You can set up your own VPN server at home, and use it to access your home network and the Internet securely when at a remote location. The VPN server could be a program running on a Mac, Windows, or Linux computer, or on your home router.
  * You can get (free or for a fee) access to a VPN by using a VPN service provider.

==Employer-provided VPN Servers==
Your employer should supply an OpenVPN configuration file (or files), along with the appropriate certificate and key files and usernames and passwords. Generally, you can just put all the files into the following folder:
~/Library/Application Support/Tunnelblick/Configurations. Don't put the folder containing the files into ...Configurations -- just put the files themselves. (This assumes that the lines in the configuration file beginning with "ca", "key", and "cert" are followed by a filename, and not a folder/filename combination.)

==Setting Up Your Own VPN Server==
This is more complicated. It involves creating your own OpenVPN configuration file (or modifying the sample file provided by Tunnelblick) and creating your own certificate and key files for encryption. (Tunnelblick does not include anything that will help you with creating certificate and key files.) There are tutorials about doing this -- try searching the Internet for "set up openvpn server".

If you want to set up a computer to act solely as a router/bridge/firewall, consider [http://www.zeroshell.net/eng/ ZeroShell].

If you have a router running DD-WRT, you can use [http://www.dd-wrt.com/wiki/index.php/OpenVPN#Enable_OpenVPN_in_the_Router OpenVPN on DD-RT]. There is a [http://www.dd-wrt.com/wiki/index.php/VPN_(the_easy_way)_v24%2B tutorial].

==VPN Service Providers That Recommend Tunnelblick Exclusively for Mac OS X==
Another way to get access to a VPN server is to use a VPN service provider, an organization that makes its VPN servers available (free or for a fee). Some provide you with a customized, and possibly renamed, version of Tunnelblick. The following VPN service providers recommend or use Tunnelblick exclusively for Mac OS X.

  * *[http://www.tunnelblick.net/to.php?to=http://www.acevpn.com Ace VPN]*
  * *[http://www.tunnelblick.net/to.php?to=http://s6n.org/arethusa Arethusa VPN]*
  * *[https://www.astrill.com/a3329ebd4 Astrill]* (Astrill contributes to Tunnelblick and you get a 10% discount on a 1-year purchase or a 5% discount on a 6-month purchase if you use this link)
  * *[http://www.tunnelblick.net/to.php?to=http://www.comodo.com/trustconnect/overview.html Comodo TrustConnect]*
  * *[http://www.tunnelblick.net/to.php?to=http://www.my-expat-network.co.uk My Expat Network]*
  * *[http://www.tunnelblick.net/to.php?to=http://info.psmail.net/noah PSMail]*
  * *[http://www.tunnelblick.net/to.php?to=http://www.RoadWarriorVPN.com Road Warrior VPN.com]*
  * *[http://www.tunnelblick.net/to.php?to=https://www.secure-tunnel.com Secure-Tunnel]*
  * *[http://www.tunnelblick.net/to.php?to=http://www.smallvpn.com Small VPN]*
  * *[http://www.tunnelblick.net/to.php?to=http://www.surfbouncer.com SurfBouncer Personal VPN]*
  * *[http://www.tunnelblick.net/to.php?to=https://vpnuk.info VPNUK]*
  * *[http://www.tunnelblick.net/to.php?to=http://www.ultravpn.fr UltraVPN]*
  * *[http://www.tunnelblick.net/to.php?to=https://www.goldenfrog.com/vyprvpn/vpn-service-provider VyprVPN]*

If you are a VPN service provider that recommends or uses Tunnelblick exclusively for Mac OS X, contact project owner [http://code.google.com/u/jkbullard/ Jon] to get yourself added this list. (The list was last updated 2010-10-01.)


Disclaimer: The products, services, and links on this page are not endorsed or recommended by the Tunnelblick developers or Google (host of this website). They are offered solely for the convenience of those wishing to Tunnelblick.

------------------

===PLEASE USE THE [http://groups.google.com/group/tunnelblick-discuss TUNNELBLICK DISCUSSION GROUP] FOR COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS===