#summary The Latest News About Tunnelblick
#sidebar cSb

*<font size="3">News</font>*

--------------------

2015-06-12: *Tunnelblick 3.6beta02 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * *<font color="red">SECURITY UPDATE:</font>* Replaces OpenSSL version 1.0.1m with version 1.0.2b.
 * Includes OpenVPN versions 2.3.7 in addition to 2.3.6.
 * Replaces LZO version 2.08 with version 2.09.
 * Updates localization, including full Turkish localization and partial Latvian localization.
 * Includes several other enhancements and fixes several bugs.
  
 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.5 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2015-06-12: *Tunnelblick 3.5.1 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * *<font color="red">SECURITY UPDATE:</font>* Replaces OpenSSL version 1.0.1m with version 1.0.1n.
 * Fixes problems flushing the DNS cache on some versions of OS X.

--------------------

2015-04-03: *Tunnelblick 3.5.0 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * This is the first stable version of Tunnelblick 3.5 -- many thanks to our tens-of-thousands of beta testers!
 * It is identical to 3.5beta10 except for version and build numbers.
 
 See [cThreeFiveHighlights Major Changes from Version 3.4 to Version 3.5].
 
 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.5 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2015-03-30: *Tunnelblick 3.5beta10 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Updates localization and credits.
 * Adds output from the 'ipconfig' command to the diagnostic info.
 * Fixes several problems.
 
   See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.5 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2015-03-29: *Tunnelblick Uninstaller 1.6 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes problems when run on a PowerPC G3 processor.
 
--------------------

2015-03-19: *Tunnelblick 3.5beta08 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * *<font color="red">SECURITY UPDATE:</font>* Includes OpenSSL 1.0.1m. See [https://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20150319.txt OpenSSL Security Advisory 19 Mar 2015].
 * Updates localization for several languages.
 * Adds log entries from helper programs to the output of 'Copy Diagnostic Info to Log'.
 * Fixes several problems.
 
   See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.5 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2015-03-19: *Tunnelblick 3.4.4 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * *<font color="red">SECURITY UPDATE:</font>* Includes OpenSSL 1.0.1m. See [https://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20150319.txt OpenSSL Security Advisory 19 Mar 2015].
  
   See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2015-01-22: *Tunnelblick 3.5beta06 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Uses a launchd daemon instead of an SUID helper to start OpenVPN on OS X Version 10.5 ("Leopard") and higher.
 * Updates Arabic, Japanese, and Chinese (traditional) localization.
 * Fixes several problems.
  
   See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.5 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2015-01-08: *Tunnelblick 3.5beta04 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * *<font color="red">SECURITY UPDATE:</font>* Includes OpenSSL 1.0.1k. See [https://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20150108.txt OpenSSL Security Advisory 08 Jan 2015].
 * Includes several other enhancements and fixes several bugs.
  
   See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.5 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2015-01-08: *Tunnelblick 3.4.3 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * *<font color="red">SECURITY UPDATE:</font>* Includes OpenSSL 1.0.1k. See [https://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20150108.txt OpenSSL Security Advisory 08 Jan 2015].
  
   See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2014-12-02: *Tunnelblick 3.5beta02 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * *<font color="red">SECURITY UPDATE:</font>* Includes OpenVPN 2.3.6. See [https://community.openvpn.net/openvpn/wiki/SecurityAnnouncement-97597e732b OpenVPN Security Announcement-97597e732b].
 * Includes complete localization in 18 languages including Danish and Greek and partial localization in 7 others, including Arabic and Bulgarian.
 * Adds the ability to save only the VPN username to the Keychain without saving the VPN password.
 * Moves the 'VPN Details…' menu item to be above the configurations. May be disabled with the 'putVpnDetailsAtBottom' preference is set TRUE.
 * Includes several other enhancements and fixes several bugs.
  
   See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.5 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2014-12-01: *Tunnelblick 3.4.2 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * *<font color="red">SECURITY UPDATE:</font>* Includes OpenVPN 2.3.6. See [https://community.openvpn.net/openvpn/wiki/SecurityAnnouncement-97597e732b OpenVPN Security Announcement-97597e732b].
 
--------------------

2014-10-15: *Tunnelblick 3.4.1 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * *<font color="red">SECURITY UPDATE:</font>* Includes OpenVPN 2.3.6. See XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX.
 * Includes complete localization in 18 languages including Greek and Danish and partial localization in 7 others, including Arabic and Bulgarian.
 * Includes several other enhancements and fixes several bugs.
 
  See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.5 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2014-10-15: *Tunnelblick 3.5beta02 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * *<font color="red">SECURITY UPDATE:</font>* Includes OpenSSL 1.0.1j. See [https://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20141015.txt OpenSSL Security Advisory (15 Oct 2014)].
 
--------------------

2014-10-03: *Tunnelblick 3.4.0 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * *<font color="red">SECURITY UPDATE:</font>* Identical to 3.4beta38 (except for version and build numbers).
 
 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2014-10-01: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta38 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * *<font color="red">SECURITY UPDATE:</font>* Fixes several security vulnerabilities.

 * Includes only OpenVPN 2.3.4. (OpenVPN 2.2.1 is no longer included.)

 * Adds a 'Set DNS after routes have been set up' checkbox to the 'Advanced' settings window.

 * Includes additional enhancements and fixes several bugs.

 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2014-09-02: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta36 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes a problem on OS X 10.9.5 ('Mavericks') and 10.10 ('Yosemite') that causes spurious warnings that 'This version has been tampered with'.

 * Re-enables the 'Place icon next to Spotlight icon' checkbox on OS X 10.9 ('Mavericks') and higher.


--------------------

2014-08-07: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta34 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * *<font color="red">SECURITY UPDATE:</font>* Updates Tunnelblick's embedded OpenSSL to version 1.0.1i from version 1.0.1h. See [https://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20140806.txt https://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20140806.txt] and [https://community.openvpn.net/openvpn/wiki/VulnerabilitiesFixedInOpenSSL1.0.1i https://community.openvpn.net/openvpn/wiki/VulnerabilitiesFixedInOpenSSL1.0.1i] for details.

 * Includes better handling of computer sleep/wake and fast user switching.

 * Includes other enhancements and fixes several bugs.
 
 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2014-07-17: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta32 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Adds the ability to have Tunnelblick VPN Configurations updated the same way that Tunnelblick is updated.

 * Uses launchd instead of login items to control the launch of Tunnelblick when the user logs in.

 * Fixes several problems.
 
 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2014-07-08: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta30 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Includes major enhancements to installing configurations.

 * Includes LZO version 2.08.

 * Changes many warning dialogs so they do not block other Tunnelblick operations.

 * Includes several other enhancements and fixes several problems.
 
 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2014-06-12: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta28 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Includes OpenSSL library version 1.0.1h, which fixes several security vulnerabilities (see [http://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20140605.txt OpenSSL Security Advisory 05 Jun 2014]).

 * Includes (some) preparation for OS X 10.10 ('Yosemite').

 * Fixes several problems.
 
 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2014-06-12: *Tunnelblick 3.3.4 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Includes OpenSSL library version 1.0.1h, which fixes several security vulnerabilities (see [http://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20140605.txt OpenSSL Security Advisory 05 Jun 2014]).


--------------------

2014-05-02: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta26 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Replaces OpenVPN version 2.3.3 with version 2.3.4.

 * Quits Tunnelblick faster.

 * Warns about OpenVPN options that are not allowed on OS X.

 * Includes several other enhancements and fixes several problems.

 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2014-04-18: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta24 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Includes OpenVPN 2.3.3 (as well as 2.2.1 and 2.3.2).

 * On OS X 10.6.8 and higher when using OpenVPN 2.3.3 and higher in a TUN configuration, Tunnelblick no longer automatically loads the tunnelblick tun kernel extension (kext). In this situation, OpenVPN will use the UTUN device driver built into OS X.

 * Adds additional security checking of programs that Tunnelblick runs as root.

 * Moves the 'Copy Diagnostic Info to Clipboard' to the main part of the 'VPN Details…' window.

 * Adds a 'quit' command for !AppleScript which terminates Tunnelblick properly so it is not launched at the next login.

 * Includes several other enhancements and fixes several problems.

 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2014-04-08: *Tunnelblick 3.3.2 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Includes OpenSSL library version 1.0.1g, which does not have the [https://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20140407.txt "heartbeat" vulnerability].

 * Implements 'Examine OpenVPN Configuration File' for Shared and Deployed configurations.

 * Option-click on a checkbox allows the option of changing a setting for all configurations.

 * Checks that additional system folders are secure.

 * Includes several other enhancements and fixes many problems.

 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.3 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2014-04-08: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta22 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Includes OpenSSL library version 1.0.1g, which does not have the [https://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20140407.txt "heartbeat" vulnerability].
 
 * Shows a notification window for the most recently connected configuration upon mouseover of the Tunnelblick icon even if no configuration has been connected since Tunnelblick was launched.

 * On OS X 10.9 ('Mavericks'), forces the Tunnelblick icon to be in the standard status icon position (to the left of other icons at the time Tunnelblick is launched). This is a temporary limitation until a bug in OS X is fixed.

 * Allows non-ASCII characters (such as accented characters) in token names, passphrases, usernames, and passwords. (Available only in OpenVPN 2.3 and higher.)

 * Includes several other enhancements and fixes several bugs.

 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2014-04-08: Yesterday an OpenSSL vulnerability was disclosed (see the [https://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20140407.txt OpenSSL Security Advisory]).

 Although Tunnelblick includes a version of the OpenSSL library which is vulnerable, James Yonan, creator of OpenVPN, [https://sourceforge.net/p/openvpn/mailman/message/32199276/ has written]:
  "Using the tls-auth option should protect against this vulnerability (assuming that your tls-auth key is not known to the attacker)."

 A new version of OpenSSL which is not vulnerable has been committed to the Tunnelblick source code (as [https://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick/source/detail?r=2787 r2787]) and will be used in the next release of Tunnelblick.

--------------------

2014-04-01: Tunnelblick no longer loads an image from !PayPal when it displays an alert that an update is available; the image is instead loaded from tunnelblick.net (via https:). This was a change to the tunnelblick.net website, not the program, so it affects all versions of Tunnelblick. (Note: the image is a "Donate" button.)

--------------------

2014-01-16: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta20 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Replaces embedded OpenSSL 1.0.1e with 1.0.1f (see [http://www.openssl.org/news/vulnerabilities.html OpenSSL Vulnerabilities]).

 * Checks and corrects ownership/permissions of launchd .plist files when Tunnelblick launches.

 * Adds a list of loaded non-Apple kexts to the 'Diagnostic Info'.

 * Includes several other enhancements and fixes many bugs.

 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2013-12-18: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta18 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Includes a new status icon (the icon in the menu bar) more in keeping with recent OS X aesthetics and which includes Retina images. (The old icon may be selected as the 'Tunnelblick 3.3 icon' on the Appearance panel of the 'VPN Details…' window.)

 * Changes to Tunnelblick's handling of computer sleep:
   * Adds a 'Disconnect when computer goes to sleep' checkbox on the 'Advanced' settings window; it is checked by default.
   * Before reconnecting any configurations after the computer wakes up from sleep, Tunnelblick waits for an Internet connection if checking that the IP address changed is allowed; or waits for a timeout period (the default is five seconds) if it is not.

 * Allows selection of the display on which notification windows will be shown if multiple displays are available.

 * Includes several other enhancements and fixes a problem converting some OpenVPN configurations to Tunnelblick VPN Configurations.

 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2013-11-22: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta16 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Adds the 'Include anonymous profile information' checkbox to the Preferences panel.

 * Adds the 'Keep connected' checkbox to the Settings tab of Configurations panel. This will attempt to reconnect a configuration if OpenVPN crashes.

 * Allows the 'Place next to Spotlight icon' checkbox (on the Appearance panel) to be checked on OS X 10.9 ("Mavericks") with multiple displays if 'Displays have separate spaces' is unchecked in the Mission Control preferences.

 * Fixes a problem with connection restarts (caused, for example, by the OpenVPN --ping-restart option) by not starting OpenVPN with the -up-restart option. Note: the OpenVPN configuration must not contain the 'persist-tun' option or restarts will still fail. (The OpenVPN documentation seems to be incorrect with respect to these two options.)

 * Includes several other enhancements and fixes several other problems.

 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2013-10-25: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta14 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Implements 'Examine OpenVPN Configuration File' for Shared and Deployed configurations.

 * On OS X 10.6 ('Snow Leopard') and higher, allows the user to select multiple configurations in the VPN Details… window and then change settings for all of the selected configurations. (A confirmation dialog prevents inadvertent changes.) The only setting that cannot be changed this way is the 'Connect' setting.

 * Adds per-configuration 'OpenVPN version' selection to the VPN Details… window and removes 'OpenVPN version' selection from the Preferences panel.

 * Adds a per-configuration 'Check that the apparent IP address changed after connecting' checkbox to the Advanced settings window.

 * Includes several other enhancements and fixes several bugs.

 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.


--------------------

2013-10-17: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta12 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Includes several important bug fixes.

 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.


--------------------

2013-10-05: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta10 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Includes additional security checking when Tunnelblick is launched.

 * Includes better error checking and reporting when installing a Tunnelblick VPN Configuration.

 * Option-click (Alt-click) on most configuration settings checkboxes allows the choice of changing the setting for the selected configuration or for all configurations.

 * Includes several other enhancements and bug fixes.

 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.


--------------------

2013-09-06: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta08 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes a problem that caused update checks to fail.
 
 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.


--------------------

2013-09-06: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta06 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes a crash when accessing checkboxes on the 'Advanced' window.

 * Uses digitally signed tun and tap kexts on OS X 10.9 ('Mavericks').

 * Recovers more gracefully from some crashes.

 * Includes several other minor changes.
 
 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.


--------------------

2013-08-21: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta04 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Uses https: for update and IP address checks.

 * Adds a 'Check for updates to beta versions' checkbox to the 'Preferences' panel.
 
 Note: This feature may be used to revert to the latest stable version from a later beta version: if this is un-checked in a beta version, Tunnelblick will offer to install the latest stable version, which may be a 'downgrade' from the beta version to an earlier stable version.

 * Includes several other minor changes.
 
 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.


--------------------

2013-08-07: *Tunnelblick 3.4beta02 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 This is the first beta release of Tunnelblick 3.4 and includes fixes for several bugs in 3.3.0:
 
 * Fixes a problem installing Tunnelblick VPN Configurations that include .cer, .cert, .der, .p12, .p7b, .p7c, or .pfx files.

 * Fixes several problems that cause Tunnelblick to crash or hang.

 * Fixes two problems on OS X 10.9 ('Mavericks').

 * Includes other enhancements and bug fixes.

 See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.4 Release Notes] for details.


--------------------

2013-07-22: *Tunnelblick 3.3 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 This is the first stable release of Tunnelblick 3.3. It is identical to version 3.3beta56 except for version information.
 
 [DocumentationForTunnelblick_3_3 Summary of Changes from Version 3.2 to Version 3.3]<br>
 [cThreeTwoToThreeThreeChanges    Changes from Version 3.2 to Version 3.3]<br>
 [RlsNotes#Version_3.3            Tunnelblick 3.3 Release Notes]

--------------------

2013-07-19: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta56 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 Expected to be the last beta before the 3.3 stable release.

 * Complete Catalan, Czech, Finnish, French, Hungarian, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Norwegian, Dutch, Portuguese, Russian, Slovak, Swedish, and Chinese (simplified) localization.

 * Allows the replacement of a Tunnelblick VPN Configuration that has an Info.plist even if it does not have a CFBundleIdentifier entry.

 * Includes several other enhancements and bug fixes.

See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.3 Release Notes] for details.


--------------------

2013-06-08: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta54 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Includes complete German, Spanish, and Polish localization.

 * Includes OpenVPN  version 2.3.2.

 * Adds the ability to edit a configuration name by clicking on it and editing it directly (OS X 10.6 and higher only).

 * Includes other enhancements and fixes several problems.
 
See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.3 Release Notes] for details.


--------------------

2013-05-20: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta52 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes several problems converting OpenVPN configurations to Tunnelblick VPN Configurations.
 
 * Fixes several other problems.
 
See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.3 Release Notes] for details.


--------------------

2013-05-14: *Tunnelblick 3.2.9 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Preparation for updating to Tunnelblick 3.3.
 * Only this and later versions will be able to update to Tunnelblick 3.3 when it becomes available as a stable release.

--------------------

2013-05-11: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta50 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Saves and restores folder expansion states and the configuration selected in the configuration list in the 'VPN Details…' window.

 * Fixes several problems converting OpenVPN configurations to Tunnelblick VPN Configurations.
 
--------------------

2013-05-08: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta48 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes a security issue when installing Tunnelblick VPN Configurations (.tblks).
 
 * Fixes a problem in the build of OpenVPN 2.3.1 that caused it to reject the 'keysize' option.

 * Includes several enhancements and fixes several other bugs.
 
--------------------

2013-04-22: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta46 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * <font color="red">Security</font>: Digitally signs Tunnelblick's copies of OpenVPN.
 
 * Includes a 64-bit Intel version of OpenVPN 2.3.1.
 
--------------------

2013-04-16: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta44 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes a problem when converting an OpenVPN configuration with the 'auth-user-pass' option to a Tunnelblick VPN Configuration.

 * Fixes a problem updating the configurations display when a configuration is added or deleted.
 
--------------------

2013-04-13: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta42 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes several problems.
 
See the [RlsNotes#Version_3.3 Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2013-04-11: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta40 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes a problem with Tunnelblick's new 64-bit OpenVPN 2.2.1 by only including the 32-bit versions of OpenVPN.
 

--------------------

2013-04-09: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta38 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Enhances installation of Tunnelblick VPN Configurations with improved error detection and correction.

 * Adds an option to force all traffic through the VPN.

 * Replaces OpenVPN version 2.3alpha1 with version 2.3.1, and runs OpenVPN, OpenSSL, and LZO in 64-bit mode when it is available (Intel only) -- many thanks to HAROLD MOLINA-BULLA.

 * Displays configurations in a way that is similar to the 'List View' in a Finder window: contents of folders can be hidden or exposed by clicking on a disclosure triangle next to the folder name. Available only on OS X 10.6 ('Snow Leopard') and higher.

 * Includes a button to copy diagnostic information to the Clipboard.

 * Includes many other enhancements and fixes several bugs.


--------------------

2013-03-28: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta36 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Removes uninstaller from disk image.

--------------------

2013-03-27: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta34 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * <font color="red">Security update:</font> Replaces OpenSSL 1.0.1c with 1.0.1e. (See [http://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20130204.txt http://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20130204.txt] and [http://www.openssl.org/source/exp/CHANGES http://www.openssl.org/source/exp/CHANGES]).

 * Accepts multiple "dhcp-option DOMAIN-SEARCH `<`domain`>`" options in the configuration file or "pushed" by the VPN server. If present and search domains were not manually set, they are prepended to any search domains that came from DHCP.

 * Adds an Uninstaller to the Tunnelblick disk image. Double-click to uninstall /Applications/Tunnelblick, or drop a Tunnelblick application onto a copy of the Uninstaller on your boot drive.

 * Several bug fixes and some other small changes.

--------------------

2013-01-08: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta21b is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * *<font color="red">Security update to prepare for Tunnelblick 3.3beta32.</font>*

 * Fixes problem detecting Deployed versions of Tunnelblick.
 
 * Fixes problem detecting that Tunnelblick is not installed in /Applications.

--------------------

2013-01-05: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta32 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes several security issues.

 * Fixes a problem that disabled all choices in the 'Connect' menu on the 'Settings' tab of the 'Configurations' panel of the 'VPN Details…' window.

 * Fixes a delay when disconnecting if only one configuration is connected.
 
 * Fixes a problem that did not connect a configuration automatically after updating a shadow configuration.

 * Fixes problems that caused some scripts in Tunnelblick VPN Configurations to not be executed.

 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
--------------------

2012-12-25: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta30 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Updates the easy-rsa programs to fix bugs in the Tunnelblick patches.

 * Secures the easy-rsa folder and its contents.

 * Warns the user when trying to install a Tunnelblick VPN Configuration (.tblk) into a Deployed version of Tunnelblick that does not allow shared and/or private configurations.

 * Contains several bug fixes.

 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
--------------------

2012-10-24: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta28 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Configurations can share credentials (usernames/passwords and pass phrases) so that the credentials need not be entered separately for each configuration.

 * Triple-clicking the Tunnelblick icon opens the VPN Details… window.

 * Adds 'Speak' to list of connect/disconnect sounds. If selected, connections and unexpected disconnections will be announced with the system default voice.

 * Defaults to use the oldest version of OpenVPN available, instead of the newest version.

 * Adds the 'Check apparent IP address after connecting' checkbox to the 'Preferences' panel.

 * Adds the 'Reconnect when computer wakes up from sleep (if connected when computer went to sleep)' checkbox to the 'Advanced' settings panel.

 * Adds the 'Revert Configuration…' menu command to revert a private configuration to it's last secured (shadow) version.

 * Contains several other enhancements and bug fixes.

 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
--------------------

2012-10-12: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta26 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Installs, and should be used, only if no Deployed versions of Tunnelblick have previously been installed. (This restriction will probably be removed in later releases.)

 * Installs even if there are OpenVPN configurations (.ovpn and .conf files).

 * Offers to convert OpenVPN configurations to Tunnelblick VPN Configurations. OpenVPN configurations that are NOT converted are NOT AVAILABLE for connection.

 * Contains several other enhancements and bug fixes.

 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
--------------------

2012-09-13: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta24 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes problems installing from disk image.

 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
--------------------

2012-09-12: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta22 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes security issues raised by Tunnelblick Issue 212.

 * Installs, and should be used, only if:
   * All private configurations are Tunnelblick VPN Configurations (.tblk files);
   * It is not a Deployed version; and
   * No Deployed versions of Tunnelblick have previously been installed.

 * Will install to, and may only be run from, /Applications.

 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
--------------------

2012-09-12: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta21a is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes incorrect display of VPN traffic statistics.

 * Restores support for PowerPC processors and OS X 10.4 ("Tiger")

 * Several other changes and bug fixes.

 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
--------------------

2012-08-20: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta20 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * After installing this version, Tunnelblick can only be updated by a computer administrator.

 * Attempts IP address check five seconds after a VPN connection is made, with a thirty second timeout. This makes it less likely that the 'No DNS' message will appear when DNS is working properly.

 * Refuses to launch if it is a signed version that replaced a Deployed version. It would become become a Deployed version with an invalid digital signature, which causes problems on different versions of OS X.

 * Several other changes and bug fixes.

 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
--------------------

2012-08-10: *Tunnelblick 3.2.8 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes several problems caused by digital signatures.

--------------------

2012-08-06: *Tunnelblick 3.2.7 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * SECURITY UPDATE: Includes OpenSSL 1.0.0j, the latest security update to the 1.0.0 branch of OpenSSL.
 
 * Tunnelblick 3.2 has reverted to using the OpenSSL 1.0.0 branch (from the 1.0.1 branch) because of problems with OpenSSL 1.0.1b on some PowerPC computers.

 * Fixes a problem when a Tunnelblick VPN Configuration (.tblk) is not a folder.

 * Fixes crashes of the Tunnelblick UI under two separate sets of complex circumstances.

--------------------

2012-08-04: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta18 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes several problems on Mountain Lion and temporarily adds extra logging to help diagnose problems.

 * Restores the default 'Set nameserver' DNS/WINS setting to restart when 'SearchDomain' is changed.

 * Adds a new checkbox on the 'Advanced' settings page that tells Tunnelblick to add the domain name provided by OpenVPN to the start of the list of search domains. This checkbox is disabled and unchecked unless the DNS/WINS setting is set to 'Set nameserver'. Adding the domain name does not take place if the search domains are manually set.

 * Checks that the computer's apparent public IP address changes when connected to a VPN. This can help diagnose connection and DNS problems. (Tunnelblick asks for permission to do this the first time it is launched for each user on a computer.)

 * Fixes a crash of the Tunnelblick UI in certain complex circumstances.

--------------------

2012-07-27: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta16 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes a problem that stops updates from being installed.

--------------------

2012-07-27: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta14 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes problems with DNS on OS X 10.8 ("Mountain Lion") when using the default DNS/WINS setting of 'Set nameserver'.

--------------------

2012-07-24: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta12 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Reverts to OpenVPN 2.3-alpha1 to fix problems with the build of OpenVPN 2.3_alpha2.

 * Fixes problems causing long delays when logging out or sleeping, restarting, or shutting down the computer.

 * Fixes a problem causing the Tunnelblick icon to disappear.

--------------------

2012-07-20: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta10 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes a problem disabling network connection monitoring.

 * Fixes a problem with OpenVPN version 2.3alpha2 being 'unknown' and disabling scripts.

 * Fixes a problem implementing preferences having to do with what to do when there are changes to the network settings.

--------------------

2012-07-19: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta08 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * SECURITY UPDATE: Updates OpenSSL to 1.0.1c ([http://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20120510.txt OpenSSL's advisory])

 * Tunnelblick is now digitally signed by an Apple 'identified developer', so that it may be installed with the default settings for Gatekeeper on OS X 10.8 ("Mountain Lion").

 * Updates to and uses OpenVPN version 2.3alpha2 by default. OpenVPN version 2.2.1 can be used instead by selecting it in the 'Preferences' panel of the 'VPN Details…' window.

 * Fixes a problem that caused configurations to connect and disconnect repeatedly on OS X 10.8 ("Mountain Lion").

 * Fixes a problem that caused a warning on the console log that the 'SUSkippedVersion' preference was unknown.

--------------------

2012-05-08: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta06 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Enhances security by digitally signing Sparkle.framework (signed versions only).

 * Fixes a problem installing or launching Tunnelblick when a .tblk exists but is not a folder (i.e., not an OS X package).

 * Fixes problems on OS X 10.4 ('Tiger').

 * Fixes a problem that sometimes caused updates to unsigned versions of Tunnelblick instead of to signed versions.<br>Note: this was not caused by a problem in Tunnelblick itself -- it was caused by a misconfiguration on the tunnelblick.net website (the website used to check for updates). The misconfiguration was fixed on 2012-05-05 at 23:54 +04:00.
 
--------------------

2012-05-03: *Tunnelblick 3.2.6 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes a crash on OS X 10.4 ("Tiger") or PowerPC.
 
--------------------

2012-04-29: *Tunnelblick 3.2.5 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes a problem with the digital signatures of updates in 3.2.4.
 
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2012-04-28: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta04 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * SECURITY UPDATE: Replaces OpenSSL 1.0.1 with 1.0.1b.

 * Enhances security by making all of the application's contents owned by root.

 * Fixes several bugs and compiler warnings.
 
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2012-04-27: *Tunnelblick 3.2.4 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * SECURITY UPDATE: Replaces OpenSSL 1.0.0g with 1.0.1b.

 * Fixes a problem with 'While connected' actions not always being saved in the 'Advanced' settings window.

 * Disconnects a configuration if a Tunnelblick VPN Configuration script returns a non-zero (mod 256) result.

 * Includes enhancements to logging.

 * Fixes two bugs and several compiler warnings.

 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2012-03-16: *Tunnelblick 3.3beta02 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Includes several changes to notification windows, including displaying all windows when the pointer (mouse) is over the Tunnelblick icon in the menu bar and displaying 'bandwidth' statistics.

 * Includes OpenVPN 2.3alpha1 and OpenSSL 1.0.1.

 * Includes 'easy-rsa' scripts for creating certificates and keys, accessed from the new 'Utilities' tab.

 * Adds the ability to have a 'route-pre-down.tunnelblick.sh' script that is run before closing a connection. (Requires OpenVPN 2.3alpha1.)

 * Adds a 'Suggestion or Bug Report…' menu item to beta versions.

 * Includes many other enhancements and bug fixes.
 
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2012-01-25: *Tunnelblick 3.2.3 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes a security vulnerability in OpenSSL by updating to OpenSSL version 1.0.0g. See [http://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20120118.txt http://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20120118.txt] for details.

 * Fixes a bug that sometimes caused repeated restarts of a connection when the search domain changed after the connection was established.

 * "Deployed" versions that update from the Tunnelblick website always update to unsigned versions to avoid problems with the OS X Keychain.

 * Fixes some French localization.

 * At launch, if Tunnelblick is updating from the official Tunnelblick site and has an invalid digital signature (for example, the program is a Deployed version or has been modified in some other way by the user), an update to an _unsigned_ version of Tunnelblick will be offered immediately -- even if the user has turned off automatic updates -- unless the "updateCheckAutomatically" preference is being forced to false or the user is not an administrator and the "onlyAdminCanUpdate' preference is false or not present.
 
--------------------

2012-01-09: *Tunnelblick 3.2.2 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes six OpenSSL security flaws by updating OpenSSL from 1.0.0e to 1.0.0f. See [http://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20120104.txt http://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20120104.txt] for details.

 * Fixes a problem that caused a restart of the connection as a result of a DHCP renewal.
 
 * Fixes failure to ask what should be done when the user enters an incorrect private key (passphrase).
 
--------------------

2011-12-29: *Tunnelblick 3.2.1 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Fixes a problem preventing installation/update for some users on OS X 10.4.

 * Fixes problems connecting (loading tun/tap kexts) for some users.
 
--------------------

2011-12-19: *Tunnelblick 3.2 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Stable 3.2 release -- not a beta release.
 
 * Fixes a security vulnerability found in Tunnelblick 3.2beta36. (See [vulnerability20111219FAQ 2011-12-19 Tunnelblick Vulnerability FAQ] for details.)

 * Includes complete Japanese localization by Yoshihisa Kawamoto.

 * Fixes a memory leak and a problem that caused a failure to localize tabs in the "Advanced" settings window.
 
--------------------

2011-12-10: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta36 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.
 * Includes additional Japanese localization by Yoshihisa Kawamoto.

 * Adds more control over what Tunnelblick does when a network setting changes. Controls are located on the "While Connected" tab of the Advanced configuration settings. (These controls may not be modified if the per-configuration 'CONFIGURATIONNAME-leasewatchOptions' preference is present. That preference is now deprecated.)

 * Includes other minor changes and bug fixes.

 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2011-11-27: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta34 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.
 * Includes a Hungarian translation by Marcell Szabo and a Czech translation by Petr Šrajer.
 * Includes the latest Tuntap release (version 20111101) for Snow Leopard and higher (version 19990913 are used for Tiger and Leopard).
 * Automatically updates with the correct signed or unsigned version.
 * For an "Unsigned Release" build, " Unsigned" is appended to CFBundleShortVersionString (the marketing version string). Similarly, for a "Debug" build, " Debug" is appended.
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2011-10-12: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta32 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.

 * Includes OpenSSL version 1.0.0e.
 * Complete Polish localization by Magdelena Zajac and Łukasz M.
 * Improved French localization by Olivier Borowski.
 * Removes extra logging by Tuntap kexts introduced in 3.2beta30.
 * Does not allow a configuration to be renamed or made private or made shared unless the configuration is disconnected.
 * Fixes a problem with configurations set to connect 'when computer starts'.
 * Fixes a problem not accepting digits in domain names pushed by the VPN server. Now accepts A-Z, a-z, 0-9, '-', and '.' in domain names. Does NOT accept internationalized domain names.
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2011-08-31: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta30 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.
 * Includes an experimental version of the Tuntap kexts (device drivers) that should fix problems with kernel panics on Lion with some processors.
 * Includes both OpenVPN 2.1.4 and OpenVPN 2.2.1.
 * Includes complete localization for Catalan, German, Spanish, French, Korean, Norwegian, Dutch, Portuguese, Russian, Swedish, and Chinese (simplified).
 * Includes other new features and fixes several bugs.
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2011-07-31: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta28 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.
 * Johan Nilsson and Tim Malmström have provided Swedish localization.
 * Prevents kernel panics on OS X 10.7 "Lion".
 * Includes other enhancements and fixes several bugs.
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2011-07-20: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta26 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.
 * Aleix Dorca has provided a complete Catalan localization.
 * Emma Segev and Tjalling Soldatt have provided complete Dutch localization.
 * Peter K. O'Connor has provided complete Chinese (simplified) localization.
 * Dennis Ukhanov, Eugene Trufanov, Nail Gilmanov, & Victor Ptichkin have provided complete Russian localization.
 * Changes the 'Show/Hide Configuration on Tunnelblick Menu' menu command to be the 'Show on menu' checkbox on the 'Settings' tab.
 * Fixes several bugs.
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2011-07-14: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta24 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.
 * Complete German localization by Marcus Schneider.
 * Complete French localization by Jeremy Sherman.
 * Complete Korean localization by Kyoungmin Kim.
 * Complete Norwegian localization by Jon Luberth.
 * Complete Portuguese localization by Denis Volpato Martins.
 * Includes OpenVPN version 2.2.1.
 * Includes other enhancements and fixes several bugs.
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2011-07-01: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta22 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.
 * Includes LZO 2.05, replacing 2.03.
 * Sleep/wake change: When the computer wakes up, it now tries to reconnect all configurations that were connected, or were in the process of being connected, when it went to sleep. (Previously, Tunnelblick only tried to reconnect only those configurations that were connected when the computer went to sleep.)
 * Adds an additional layer of protection against attacks.
 * Fixes several bugs.
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2011-06-29: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta20 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.
 * Fixes a bug causing domains to be ignored when 'Set nameserver' is selected.
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2011-06-27: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta18 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.
 * Changes to the sound settings now take effect immediately.
 * Shows a splash screen during installation.
 * Cascades status windows when multiple status windows are being displayed simultaneously.
 * Fixes a problem that displayed incorrect sound 'on connect' and sound 'on unexpected disconnect' selections when no selections have been made. (Should have displayed 'None' for each, but displayed 'Glass' and 'Basso'.)
 * Includes several other small changes and bug fixes.
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2011-06-24: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta16 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.
 * Portuguese localization by Denis Volpato Martins. Thanks!
 * Includes a single up/down script pair for Set nameserver which works for both tun and tap devices. Thanks to Nick Williams!
 * Implements a new simplified menu and a new 'VPN Details…' window:
  * Allows easy management of configurations, including renaming, duplicating, and removing them, and the ability to remove a configuration's credentials from the Keychain.
  * Includes a new GUI for modifying configuration settings, program preferences, and the appearance of the Tunnelblick icon and menu.
 * Optionally plays a sound when the connection is completed or unexpectedly terminated or restarted. By default, the system's 'Glass' sound is used as the tunnel up sound, and the system's 'Basso' sound is used as the tunnel unexpectedly down sound.
 * Includes several new features for VPN service providers.
 * Fixes several bugs and includes additional security protections.
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2011-05-17: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta14 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.
 * Fixes a crash on startup on OS X 10.4 ("Tiger") and 10.5 ("Leopard").
 * Fixes a typo in the help page for the "Appearance" preferences.
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2011-05-16: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta12 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.
 * Tunnelblick now has a preferences window.
 * The Tunnelblick menu has been streamlined.
 * Tunnelblick is digitally signed to avoid asking the user for permission to access the Keychain.
 * Contains other enhancements and fixes several bugs.
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2011-04-29: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta10 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.
 * Includes OpenVPN 2.2 and PKCS#11 1.08.
 * Includes complete Portuguese localization by Denis Volpato Martins. Thanks, Denis!
 * Removes the 'Clear log' button from the Details… window. (It is no longer needed because the log display is cleared at the start of each connection and its size is limited to 100,000 characters. This limit can be overridden by the 'maxLogDisplaySize' preference.).
 * Fixes several bugs.
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2011-04-26: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta08 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.
 * No longer uses the down-root plugin if there are no 'user' or 'group' options in the configuration file. (The 'XXX-useDownRootPlugin' preference is removed in this situation.)
 * 'Monitor connection' is more tolerant of unimportant changes and may be customized.
 * Higher 'verb' levels may be used without performance degradation.
 * Fixes several bugs.
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.
 
--------------------

2011-04-06: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta06 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.
 * Allows copy/paste of usernames, passwords, and passphrases in the VPN login window. (For security reasons, passwords and passphrases may only be pasted.)
 * Fixes a bug that sometimes failed to alert the user when a VPN username/password or passphrase failed to be authenticated.
 * Allows Tunnelblick VPN Configurations ('.tblk' packages) to be uninstalled.
 * Includes several other enhancements and bug fixes.
 See the [RlsNotes Release Notes] for details.

--------------------

2011-04-03: *Tunnelblick 3.1.7 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.
 * Fixes problems causing tun/tap kexts to be loaded even though preferences specify that the kext(s) are not to be loaded.
 * Fixes a problem with installing some Tunnelblick VPN Configurations (.tblk).

--------------------

2011-02-19: *Tunnelblick 3.1.6 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*. Full details are in the [RlsNotes Release Notes].
 * Fixes a bug that caused up/down scripts in Tunnelblick VPN Configurations (.tblks) to be ignored.

--------------------

2011-02-19: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta04 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*. Full details are in the [RlsNotes Release Notes].
 * Adds [cAppleScriptSupport AppleScript support].
 * Includes complete French localization by Jeremy W. Sherman. Thanks, Jeremy!
 * Includes OpenSSL 1.0.0d.
 * Unloading of the foo.tap and foo.tun kexts is now attempted only if they are already loaded (previously, it was always attempted and errors were ignored).
 * Fixes problems with fast user switching and fixes several bugs.

--------------------

2011-02-08: *Tunnelblick not affected by OpenSSL security flaw*

 Tunnelblick versions 3.1.5, 3.2beta02, and 3.0.1 are not affected by the [http://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20110208.txt OpenSSL security flaw] announced today.

--------------------

2011-02-02: *Tunnelblick 3.2beta02 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*. Full details are in the [RlsNotes Release Notes].
 * The following scripts may be included in a Tunnelblick VPN Configuration (.tblk package):
   * pre-connect.sh
   * post-tun-tap-load.sh
   * connected.sh
   * reconnecting.sh
   * post-disconnect.sh
 For more details, see [cConfigT Tunnelblick VPN Configurations] and [cUsingScripts Using Scripts].
 * Fixes problem installing Tunnelblick via double-click when the user's home folder is not on the same volume as /Applications/Tunnelblick.app

 * Other minor changes

--------------------

2011-02-01: *Tunnelblick 3.1.5 is [DownloadsEntry available for download]*.
 Fixes a bug causing installation/repair failures on OS X 10.4 ("Tiger") PPC.

--------------------

2011-01-28: *Tunnelblick 3.1.4 is available*.
 Fixes a bug causing installation/repair failures on OS X 10.4 ("Tiger").
 
--------------------

2011-01-28: *OS X 10.4 ("Tiger") Installation Failure*
 Installing or updating to Tunnelblick 3.1.3 on OS X 10.4 ("Tiger") fails. See the first entry in [cKnown Known Issues] for a workaround.
 
--------------------

2011-01-27: *Security Vulnerability*
 A bug causing a security vulnerability exists in Tunnelblick versions 3.1, 3.1.1, and 3.1.2. It allows an unprivileged user to erase the contents of any file, including important system files, on any Mac OS X system with a vulnerable version of Tunnelblick installed. As far as is known as of 2011-01-27, the bug cannot be used to take control of the system or obtain root access. All users of Tunnelblick are advised to update to the latest version. For more information including instructions for updating, see the [vulnerability20110127FAQ 2011-01-27 Vulnerability FAQ].

--------------------

2011-01-12: *Security Vulnerability*
 A bug causing an exploitable security problem exists in most Tunnelblick versions before 3.1.1. It allows an unprivileged user to gain root privileges on any Mac OS X system with a vulnerable version of Tunnelblick installed. All users of Tunnelblick are advised to update to the latest version. For more information including instructions for updating, see the [vulnerability20110112FAQ 2011-01-12 Vulnerability FAQ].
 
 Thanks to [http://www.subreption.com Subreption, LLC] for pointing out the security implications of this bug.

--------------------

2010-12-25: *Tunnelblick 3.1.2 is available*.
 * Removes the 'warns the user when certain unexpected disconnections occur' feature added in version 3.1.1 because it caused Tunnelblick to hang under certain conditions of sleep/wake cycles and/or screensavers. This feature will return in more robust form in a future beta release.

--------------------

2010-12-18: *Tunnelblick 3.1.1 is available*. Full details are in the [RlsNotes Release Notes].

 * Fixes several problems and warns the user about unexpected disconnections.

--------------------

2010-12-05: *Tunnelblick 3.1 is available*. Full details are in the [RlsNotes Release Notes].

 * Only the version and build numbers were updated.

--------------------

2010-12-03: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta24 is available*. Full details are in the [RlsNotes Release Notes].

 * Updates to use OpenSSL 1.0.0c, which fixes several security vulnerabilities.

 * Searches for the icon set folder in Tunnelblick.app/Contents/Resources/Deploy and then in /Library/Application Support/Tunnelblick/Shared before defaulting to the version in Tunnelblick.app/Contents/Resources.

 * Fixes bug that caused an unneeded folder (dmgFiles) to be built into Tunnelblick.app/Contents/Resources.

--------------------

2010-12-01: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta22 is available*. Full details are in the [RlsNotes Release Notes].

  * Updated to include OpenVPN 2.1.4 and OpenSSL 1.0.0b.
  
  * Adds a note to the OpenVPN log (in the Details… window) when the computer goes to sleep or wakes up and a connection is terminated/restarted.
  
  * Fixes a problem modifying 'Set nameserver' on other-than-the-first connection.

  * Fixes an OpenVPN problem with special case route targets ('remote_host')

--------------------

2010-10-31: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta20 is available*. Full details are in the [RlsNotes Release Notes].

  * Removed confusing question when Tunnelblick is launched and foo.tap and/or foo.tun (old Tunnelblick kexts) are loaded. The question asked if foo.tun and foo.tap should be unloaded. Now they are unloaded only as needed to make a connection: foo.tap is unloaded if net.tunnelblick.tap is being loaded for the connection, and foo.tun is unloaded if net.tunnelblick.tun is being loaded for the connection. The 'skipAskingToUnloadFooKexts' preference is no longer used. To override Tunnelblick's automatic loading of the tun or tap kexts required for a connection, see the following per-configuration [wPrefs Preferences]: "-doNotLoadTunKext", "-doNotLoadTapKext", "-loadTunKext", and "-loadTapKext".

--------------------

2010-10-16: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta18 is available*. Full details are in the [RlsNotes Release Notes].

  * When there are more than eight configurations, the Details… window changes to display a list of connections on the left side and a single tab with the log and controls on the right. This was done because of OS X problems when there are a large numbers of tabs. The 'maximumNumberOfTabs' preference specifies the maximum number of tabs to display; if there are more than that many configurations, the display will change as described above. The preference defaults to 8. Set this preference to 0 to always show configurations in a list on the left.

  * Streamlines installation by double-clicking to have only one dialog box explaining what will be installed and asking for admin username/password.

  * Fixes bug which prevented Standard users from installing Tunnelblick by double-clicking.

  * Fixes bugs in automatic installation of .tblks when installing Tunnelblick.

--------------------

2010-10-08: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta16 is available*. Full details are in the [RlsNotes Release Notes].

  * Replaces the 'Set nameserver' checkbox with a drop-down list that can display additional choices to allow different up/down scripts to be used.

  * Adds the ability to add menu items to the Tunnelblick menu to execute programs (e.g., scripts).
  * Adds the ability to specify programs that should be executed when Tunnelblick is launched or when a connection is attempted.
  (See [cCusDeployed#Additional_Menu_Commands_and_Programs Additional Menu Commands and Programs] for details.)

  * Includes localization-related code tweaks by Stefan Bethke and additional German localization by Stefan Bethke, Marcus Schneider, and 'Dr Hok'.

 * Fixes a formatting error when displaying file permissions in error messages about being unable to change permissions.

 * Fixes a problem causing a connection restart when 'Set nameserver' is used, a DHCP renewal occurs, and there are no WINS settings.

 * Fixes issues when using OpenDirectory and the user's home directory is on a non-Mac platform.

--------------------

2010-09-09: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta14 is available*. Full details are in the [RlsNotes Release Notes].

 * Fixes a problem that, under certain circumstances, crashes client.down.tunnelblick.sh. (Issue 159.)

 * Thanks to Mohammad A. Haque, this release imbeds the  OpenSSL version. 1.0.0a library into the included OpenVPN binary. This adds support for over 60 additional digests, ciphers, and TLS ciphers.

 * Includes OpenVPN version 2.1.3.

--------------------

2010-08-08: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta12 is available*. Full details are in the [RlsNotes Release Notes].

New features include:

 * Italian localization thanks to Pierpaolo Gulla (Grazie!).

 * Implements a single, system-wide keyboard shortcut (command-option-F1 by default) to expose the Tunnelblick menu.

 * No longer displays Tooltips by default.

 * Terminates faster if going to sleep or if no unknown OpenVPN processes exist and no 'when computer starts' configurations are connected.

 * Fixes several bugs and includes a workaround for an OpenVPN bug.
 
--------------------

2010-07-29: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta10 is available*. Full details are in the [RlsNotes Release Notes].

This beta includes an important bug fix:

  * Fixes bugs in the shadow copy mechanism that caused connect failures, log-hookup failures, and (possibly) other problems. Thanks to Jim Bo for pointing out the first problem and suggesting a solution. The bugs were introduced in 3.1beta08.

New features include:

 * Configurations located in subfolders are displayed in submenus of the main Tunnelblick menu.

 * When a Tunnelblick VPN Configuration (.tblk package) is installed, all Tunnelblick VPN Configurations within it will be installed. If these 'inner' configurations are inside subfolders of the outer .tblk, they will be installed as subfolders of the configurations folders and will appear in submenus of the main Tunnelblick menu.

 * Automatic installation of configurations from the .dmg has changed: Only one Tunnelblick VPN Configuration (.tblk packages) in the '.auto-install' or '.auto-install' folders and their subfolders is installed.

--------------------

2010-07-10: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta08 is available*. Full details are in the [RlsNotes Release Notes].

In addition to fixing bugs, this release adds several new features:
 * Benji Greig has updated the Tunnelblick icon for Coverflow and created a distinctive icon for Tunnelblick VPN Configurations and a new background image for the disk image. Thanks, Benji!

  * Log processing and display have been rewritten:
    * Log files are created each time a connection is made.
    * When displaying the log, the entries are merged such that script log entries follow OpenVPN log entries that have the same date/time.
    * The log display now shows the most recent 10000 entries. Earlier entries are not displayed, but are in the log files stored in /tmp/tunnelblick/logs.

  * The DNS cache is flushed after a tunnel is established and after it is torn down. This is enabled by default but may be disabled by the per-connection "-doNotFlushCache" preference.

  * Tunnelblick VPN Configurations (.tblk packages) may now be shadow copied.

  * Configurations (.conf, .ovpn, and .tblk) may be stored in subfolders. Note that .tblk configurations are installed at the top level of the shared or private folder; they must then be moved to a subfolder if that is desired.

--------------------

2010-06-07: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta06 is available*.

This is mainly a bug-fix release, but it adds one new feature: It runs new scripts, pre-connect.sh and post-disconnect.sh, as root before connecting and/or after disconnecting if the scripts exist. (They must be in a .tblk package). This allows manipulation of kexts and/or the network configuration before the tun/tap kexts are loaded and OpenVPN is run and after OpenVPN exits and the kexts are unloaded.

The full list of changes is in the [RlsNotes Release Notes].

--------------------

2010-05-27: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta04 is available*.

This is mainly a bug-fix release, but there are some new features:

  * The pipes for script output to "Details…" window are created on demand instead of when Tunnelblick launches, so if you have 50 configurations, Tunnelblick won't create 50 pipes when launched.

  * A DHCP renew which restores the original DNS and/or WINS information no longer causes the connection to restart. This new behavior can reversed be by setting Tunnelblick the boolean preferences '-doNotRestoreOnDnsReset' and/or '-doNotRestoreOnWinsReset' to TRUE.

  * The up, down, and leasewatch scripts have been modified to implement options for the scripts which Tunnelblick causes OpenVPN to put first (before OpenVPN parameters) in the command line which starts the up/down scripts.

The full list of changes is in the [RlsNotes Release Notes].

--------------------

2010-05-14: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta02 is available*.

The full list of changes is in the [RlsNotes Release Notes].

New features include:

 * *Tunnelblick VPN Configurations*: All of the files associated with one configuration may be collected together and put into a Tunnelblick VPN Configuration. Tunnelblick VPN Configurations include features such as version control that make them easy to use for distribution to multiple Tunnelblick users.

 * *Shared configurations*: Tunnelblick VPN Configurations may be shared by all users of a computer without being installed for each user individually. A button on the "Details…" window switches a configuration from Shared to Private or Private to Shared.

 * *Connect when computer starts*: Shared and Deployed Tunnelblick VPN Configurations may be set to automatically connect when the computer starts, before anyone is logged in. Such connections can persist through login and logout and may be controlled by Tunnelblick when a user is logged in.

 * *Tunnelblick deals with the .tun and .tap kexts more flexibly*.


------------------

===PLEASE USE THE [http://groups.google.com/group/tunnelblick-discuss TUNNELBLICK DISCUSSION GROUP] FOR COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS===
