#summary Release Notes - Tunnelblick v 3.0b10
#labels Deprecated
==Tunnelblick Release Notes==
The latest version of these release notes is located at http://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick/wiki/ReleaseNotes.

*PLEASE* discuss any problems on the [http://groups.google.com/group/tunnelblick-discuss Tunnelblick Discussion List] before initiating an Issue. Issues are usually only looked at by the developers; the Discussion List has a broader audience of members who might be able to help!

For more information, see the [http://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick Tunnelblick website].

==3.0b10==
  
  * fix linking problem that resulted in lzo compression not working on PowerPC 
  * prevent user from launching tunnelblick directly from the dmg
  * remove experimental status from 'Set Nameserver' and make it the default
  * upgrade to OpenVPN 2.1_rc15
  * let buffered openvpn log messages appear in the GUI log
  * possible fix for the crash if password is mistyped when using username/password authentication
  * add version number to plist file
  * don't restart connections on NetworkDidChange notification. fixes issue where existing connections would be reset when starting multiple simultaneous vpn connections.
  * always use --script-security 2 so users are allowed to supply custom up/down scripts. needed for OpenVPN 2.1
  * add missing example config file
  * properly escape special chars in username or password/passphrase before passing them over to the management interface. fixes issue where the password/passphrase was not accepted when it contained backslashes or " chars.
  * use NSStatusWindowLevel for notification windows. fixes issue that Tunnelblick icon remained visible in spaces or fullscreen mode of some apps.
  * increase robustness when killing openvpn children by explicitly sending the SIGTERM to the process id instead of just sending "signal SIGTERM" over the management socket
  * kill all openvpn processes on quit. fixes a rare condition where openvpn processes would be left over on Tunnelblick  quit
  * Add German, French, Japanese, Korean and Norwegian translations
  
==3.0b9==

  * Fixed the crash on Leopard
  * Fixes the slow shutdown issue
  * Updated to the new tun/tap drivers
  * Auto-Update Capability using Sparkle

------------------

===PLEASE USE THE [http://groups.google.com/group/tunnelblick-discussTUNNELBLICK DISCUSSION GROUP] FOR COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS*===