#summary VPN Service Providers

To use Tunnelblick, you must have access a VPN server. (Your computer is one end of the tunnel, the VPN server is the other end.) There are several ways to get access to a VPN server:

  * Your employer may provide a VPN server so you can work from home easily.
  * You can set up your own VPN server at home, and use it to access your home network and the Internet safely when at a remote location. The VPN server could be a program running on a Mac, Windows, or Linux computer, or on your home router.
  * You can get (free or for a fee) access to a VPN by using a VPN service provider.

===Employer-provided VPN Servers==
Your employer should supply an OpenVPN configuration file (or files), along with the appropriate certificate and key files and usernames and passwords.

==Setting Up Your Own VPN Server==
This is more complicated. It involves creating an OpenVPN configuration file and certificate and key files. There are tutorials about doing this -- try searching for "set up vpn server".

If you want to set up a computer to act solely as a router/bridge/firewall, consider [http://www.zeroshell.net/eng/ ZeroShell].

If you have a router running DD-WRT, consider the [http://www.dd-wrt.com/wiki/index.php/OpenVPN#Enable_OpenVPN_in_the_Router DD-RT].

==VPN Service Providers That Recommend Tunnelblick Exclusively for Mac OS X==

  * [http://www.acevpn.com Ace VPN]
  * [http://s6n.org/arethusa Arethusa VPN]
  * [http://www.my-expat-network.co.uk My Expat Network]
  * [http://www.surfbouncer.com SurfBouncer Personal VPN]
  * [http://www.tuvpn.com TUVPN]
  * [http://www.ultravpn.fr UltraVPN]

If you are a VPN service provider that recommends Tunnelblick exclusively for Mac OS X, contact project owner [http://code.google.com/u/jkbullard/ Jon] to get yourself added this list. (The list was last updated 2010-04-07.)


Disclaimer: The products, services, and links on this page are not endorsed or recommended by the Tunnelblick developers or Google (host of this website). They are offered solely for the convenience of those wishing to Tunnelblick.

------------------

===PLEASE USE THE [http://groups.google.com/group/tunnelblick-discuss TUNNELBLICK DISCUSSION GROUP] FOR COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS===