#summary Beta Versions of Tunnelblick
#sidebar wSb

A *"beta"* version of a program is a version that has been tested internally and is ready for testing by the wider community. It usually has new features that are subject to change and need testing, and may have bugs or limitations.

*Please provide feedback* (pro or con) about beta releases in the [http://groups.google.com/group/tunnelblick-discuss Tunnelblick Discussion Group].

When a new beta version is available, it is announced to the [http://groups.google.com/group/tunnelblick-discuss Tunnelblick Discussion Group].

--------------------
<font color="red">*IMPORTANT: SEE THE [wRlsNotes RELEASE NOTES] IF YOU HAVE USED "WHEN COMPUTER STARTS" WITH 3.1beta02 - 3.1beta06 BUT HAVE NOT USED 3.1beta08 OR LATER*</font> 

--------------------
2010-10-08: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta16 is now [http://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick/downloads/detail?name=Tunnelblick_3.1beta16.dmg available for download]*. Full details are in the [wRlsNotes Release Notes].

  * Replaces the 'Set nameserver' checkbox with a drop-down list that can display additional choices to allow different up/down scripts to be used.

  * Adds the ability to add menu items to the Tunnelblick menu to execute programs (e.g., scripts).

  * Adds the ability to specify programs that should be executed when Tunnelblick is launched or when a connection is attempted.

  * Includes localization-related code tweaks by Stefan Bethke and additional German localization by Stefan Bethke, Marcus Schneider, and 'Dr Hok'.

 * Fixes a formatting error when displaying file permissions in error messages about being unable to change permissions.

 * Fixes a problem causing a connection restart when 'Set nameserver' is used, a DHCP renewal occurs, and there are no WINS settings.

 * Fixes issues when using OpenDirectory and the user's home directory is on a non-Mac platform.
--------------------
2010-09-09: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta14 is now [http://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick/downloads/detail?name=Tunnelblick_3.1beta14.dmg available for download]*. Full details are in the [wRlsNotes Release Notes].

 * Fixes a problem that, under certain circumstances, crashes client.down.tunnelblick.sh. (Issue 159.)

 * Thanks to Mohammad A. Haque, this release imbeds the  OpenSSL version. 1.0.0a library into the included OpenVPN binary. This adds support for over 60 additional digests, ciphers, and TLS ciphers.

 * Includes OpenVPN version 2.1.3.

 --------------------
2010-08-08: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta12 is now [http://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick/downloads/detail?name=Tunnelblick_3.1beta12.dmg available for download]*. Full details are in the [wRlsNotes Release Notes].

New features include:

 * Italian localization thanks to Pierpaolo Gulla (Grazie!).

 * Implements a single, system-wide keyboard shortcut (command-option-F1 by default) to expose the Tunnelblick menu.

 * No longer displays Tooltips by default.

 * Terminates faster if going to sleep or if no unknown OpenVPN processes exist and no 'when computer starts' configurations are connected.

 * Fixes several bugs and includes a workaround for an OpenVPN bug.
 
--------------------
2010-07-29: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta10 is now [http://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick/downloads/detail?name=Tunnelblick_3.1beta10.dmg available for download]*. Full details are in the [wRlsNotes Release Notes].

This beta includes an important bug fix:

 * Fixes bugs in the shadow copy mechanism that caused connect failures, log-hookup failures, and (possibly) other problems. Thanks to Jim Bo for pointing out the first problem and suggesting a solution. The bugs were introduced in 3.1beta08.

New features include:

 * Configurations located in subfolders are displayed in submenus of the main Tunnelblick menu.

 * When a Tunnelblick VPN Configuration (.tblk package) is installed, all Tunnelblick VPN Configurations within it will be installed. If these 'inner' configurations are inside subfolders of the outer .tblk, they will be installed as subfolders of the configurations folders and will appear in submenus of the main Tunnelblick menu.

 * Automatic installation of configurations from the .dmg has changed: Only one Tunnelblick VPN Configuration (.tblk packages) in the '.auto-install' or '.auto-install' folders and their subfolders is installed.

--------------------
2010-07-10: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta08 is now [http://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick/downloads/detail?name=Tunnelblick_3.1beta08.dmg available for download]*. Full details are in the [wRlsNotes Release Notes].

In addition to fixing bugs, this release adds several new features:
 * Benji Greig has updated the Tunnelblick icon for Coverflow and created a distinctive icon for Tunnelblick VPN Configurations and a new background image for the disk image. Thanks, Benji!

 * Log processing and display have been rewritten:
  * Log files are created each time a connection is made.
  * When displaying the log, the entries are merged such that script log entries follow OpenVPN log entries that have the same date/time.
  * The log display now shows the most recent 10000 entries. Earlier entries are not displayed, but are in the log files stored in /tmp/tunnelblick/logs.

 * The DNS cache is flushed after a tunnel is established and after it is torn down. This is enabled by default but may be disabled by the per-connection "-doNotFlushCache" preference.

 * Tunnelblick VPN Configurations (.tblk packages) may now be shadow copied.

 * Configurations (.conf, .ovpn, and .tblk) may be stored in subfolders. Note that .tblk configurations are installed at the top level of the shared or private folder; they must then be moved to a subfolder if that is desired.

--------------------
2010-06-07: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta06 is now  [http://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick/downloads/detail?name=Tunnelblick_3.1beta06.dmg available for download]*. Full details are in the [wRlsNotes Release Notes].

This is mainly a bug-fix release, but it adds one new feature: It runs new scripts, pre-connect.sh and post-disconnect.sh, as root before connecting and/or after disconnecting if the scripts exist. (They must be in a .tblk package). This allows manipulation of kexts and/or the network configuration before the tun/tap kexts are loaded and OpenVPN is run and after OpenVPN exits and the kexts are unloaded.

--------------------
2010-05-27: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta04 is now [http://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick/downloads/detail?name=Tunnelblick_3.1beta04.dmg available for download]*. Full details are in the [wRlsNotes Release Notes].

This is mainly a bug-fix release, but there are some new features:

 * The pipes for script output to OpenVPN log window are created on demand instead of when Tunnelblick launches, so if you have 50 configurations, Tunnelblick won't create 50 pipes when launched.

 * A DHCP renew which restores the original DNS and/or WINS information no longer causes the connection to restart. This new behavior can reversed be by setting Tunnelblick the boolean preferences '-doNotRestoreOnDnsReset' and/or '-doNotRestoreOnWinsReset' to TRUE.

 * The up, down, and leasewatch scripts have been modified to implement options for the scripts whichOpenVPN to puts first (before the usual OpenVPN parameters) in the command line which starts the up/down scripts.

------------------

2010-05-14: *Tunnelblick 3.1beta02 is now [http://code.google.com/p/tunnelblick/downloads/detail?name=Tunnelblick_3.1beta02.dmg available for download]*. Full details are in the [wRlsNotes Release Notes].

New features include:

 * *Tunnelblick VPN Configurations*: All of the files associated with one configuration may be collected together and put into a Tunnelblick VPN Configuration. Tunnelblick VPN Configurations include features such as version control that make them easy to use for distribution to multiple Tunnelblick users. [wPkgs Details].

 * *Shared configurations*: Tunnelblick VPN Configurations may be shared by all users of a computer without being installed for each user individually. A button on the "Details…" window switches a configuration from Shared to Private or Private to Shared. Note: when switching from Shared to Private or Private to Shared, Info.plist entries are ignored. That is, the file is copied, but neither the file nor user preferences are changed as a result of the switch.

 * *Connect when computer starts*: Shared and Deployed Tunnelblick VPN Configurations may be set to automatically connect when the computer starts, before anyone is logged in. Such connections persist through login and logout and may be controlled by Tunnelblick when a user is logged in.
  * When Tunnelblick is launched, it attaches itself to any OpenVPN processes which were started because of that option and allows control (disconnect/connect) of them, and displays their logs.
  * When Tunnelblick quits, it closes only those connections which do not have 'when computer starts' selected. Thus OpenVPN instances started outside of Tunnelblick will continue, as will those started by Tunnelblick at any time that have 'when computer starts' selected at the time Tunnelblick quits.
  * If any unknown OpenVPN processes are running a few seconds after Tunnelblick is launched (i.e., after it has 'hooked up' to ones it started because of the 'when the computer starts' option), it pops up a window which gives the user the option to terminate them or ignore them. A checkbox in the window allows the user to 'Do not display this message again, always ignore'. There is a preference, 'hookupTimeout' that is the number of seconds to try, with a default of five seconds.
  * Configurations set to connect 'when the computer starts' must not ask for usernames, passwords, or private keys. (There is no user to ask, and Tunnelblick is not running so it can read them from the Keychain and give them to OpenVPN.)

 * *Tunnelblick deals with the .tun and .tap kexts more flexibly*. For details, see the [wRlsNotes Release Notes]. Highlights:
  * Loads and unloads them on demand: loaded at connect, unloaded at disconnect. An load is ignored if the kext is already loaded and an unload is ignored if the kext is in use. 
  * Scans the configuration file to determine if 'tap' or 'tun' is being used, and loads only the appropriate kext at connect. (Tunnelblick uses whatever is specified in the first 'dev' option in the configuration file.)
  * New per-configuration preferences can be used to override the automatic detection of which kexts to load at connect: -loadTapKext, -loadTunKext, -doNotLoadTapKext, and -doNotLoadTunKext are all to be prefixed by the configuration name. (If both 'load…' and 'doNotLoad…' preferences exist for a specific configuration, the specified kext will not be loaded.)
  * When Tunnelblick launches, it unloads net.tunnelblick.tun and net.tunnelblick.tap so that the versions in use will always be loaded from the running version of Tunnelblick.app. The unload will not occur if the kexts are in use -- for example, by an instance of OpenVPN started when the computer started.
  * If foo.tap and foo.tun are loaded when Tunnelblick launches, it offers to unload them. (They are the old Tunnelblick kexts.) This simplifies the transition to the new net.tunnelblick.tun/tap for most users without a computer restart. 



------------------

===PLEASE USE THE [http://groups.google.com/group/tunnelblick-discuss TUNNELBLICK DISCUSSION GROUP] FOR COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS*===