#summary Developer Note: Modifying the Disk Image
#labels Deprecated
#sidebar wSb

Starting with Build 1326, the build process for Tunnelblick specifies the view options, icon positions, and background image that the user sees upon opening Tunnelblick.dmg. These settings are contained in the "tunnelblick/dmgFiles" folder, which contains three items:

  * The "tunnelblick/dmgFiles/dotDS_Store" file is a .DS_Store file copied from a volume which has view options, icon positions, and a background image set up the way we want the Tunnelblick .dmg to appear. The file is copied to the staging folder ("/tunnelblick/build/Release/Tunnelblick"), and the copy there is renamed ".DS_Store" and set to be invisible in the Finder, before the .dmg is created from the staging folder.

  * The "tunnelblick/dmgFiles/background" folder contains the "background.png" file which is used as a background for the .dmg when it is opened in the Finder. The folder and its contents are copied to the staging folder, and the copy of the folder in the staging folder is set to be invisible in the Finder, before the .dmg is created from the staging folder.

  * The "background.rtf" file is not used directly in the creation of the .dmg. Instead, it provides an easy way to create the text-based background image. It is an RTF document which can be easily edited in !SimpleText. A screenshot of it can then taken to provide the "background.png" file that is used as a background image when the .dmg is opened in the Finder. This is done so that additional translations can be added, corrections made, etc. (Don't forget to turn off spell checking in SimpleText when taking the screenshot, so wavy red underlines don't appear in it!)

==MODIFYING THE BACKGROUND IMAGE==

To modify the background image, simply edit "background.rtf", take a screenshot (using Command-Shift-4) starting from the upper-left corner of the editing window, rename the screenshot to "background.png", and copy it into "tunnelblick/dmgFiles/background", overwriting the old version.

==ADDING/REMOVING CONTENT OR MODIFYING THE LAYOUT OF ICONS OR VIEW OPTIONS==

Note: According to http://www.araelium.com/dmgcanvas:
  "In Mac OS X Snow Leopard, disk images created with background images do not display properly on Mac OS X Leopard and earlier. This is because of a change in Finder itself that affects all disk images created on Snow Leopard."

So it might be a good idea to do the following in Leopard or Tiger.

Modifying view options, the layout of the icons, or adding or removing content/icons is more complicated:
  # Use Disk Utility to convert Tunnelblick.dmg to a read/write image named "TunnelblickRW.dmg". ("Convert" creates a new copy without disturbing the original.)
  # Double-click the read-write image and then double-click the resulting Tunnelblick volume to open a window for it in the Finder.
  # Manipulate the window to add or remove files, change view options and icon positions, etc. as desired.
  # Close the window.
  # Eject the Tunnelblick volume, and then log out and log back in again or restart your computer. (The logout/login or restart seems to be necessary to flush the Finder's cache of data to the the .DS_Store file on the volume.)
  # Use Disk Utility to convert TunnelblickRW.dmg to a "compressed" disk image named "TunnelblickC.dmg".
  # Double-click TunnelblickC.dmg and verify that the window layout, view options, etc. are as desired.
  # Use the following Terminal commands to (A) copy the volume's .DS_Store file and (B) make it visible. (Tip: drag and drop a folder icon anywhere in the Terminal window to insert the absolute path to that folder, followed by a space, at the Terminal window's insertion point.)

      `cp -p /Volumes/Tunnelblick/.DS_Store` _path-to-dmgFiles/dotDS_Store_

      `setfile -a -v` _path-to-dmgFiles/dotDS_Store_

  Example assuming the source code is in a folder named "TB" in a user's Documents folder:

      `cp   -p   /Volumes/Tunnelblick/.DS_Store   /Users/joe/Documents/TB/tunnelblick/dmgFiles/dotDS_Store`

      `setfile   -a   -v   /Users/joe/Documents/TB/tunnelblick/dmgFiles/dotDS_Store`

------------------

===PLEASE USE THE [http://groups.google.com/group/tunnelblick-discuss TUNNELBLICK DISCUSSION GROUP] FOR COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS*===